CALIFORNIA LEGISLATURE— 
								2009–2010 REGULAR SESSION
								Assembly Bill
							No. 1133Introduced  by 
							Assembly Member
						NielloFebruary 27, 2009 An act to amend Sections 18520, 18521, 18522, and 18540 of, and to add Section 18522.5 to, the Elections Code, relating to elections. LEGISLATIVE COUNSEL'S DIGESTAB 1133, as introduced, Niello.
											  Gifts for voting.Existing law makes it a crime for a person or committee to attempt to influence a voter, through the use of money, gifts, loans or other valuable consideration, or through the use of force or coercion, to abstain from voting or to vote for a particular person or measure.This bill would also make it a crime for a person or committee to attempt to influence a voter, through the use of money, gifts, loans or other valuable consideration, or through the use of force or coercion, to register to vote or to vote at an election. The bill would also make it a crime for a person to receive gifts, money, loans, or other valuable consideration in return for registering to vote. Because the bill would create new crimes, it would impose a state-mandated local program.The California Constitution requires the state to reimburse local
		agencies and school districts for certain costs mandated by the state. Statutory provisions establish procedures for making that reimbursement.This bill would provide that no reimbursement is required by this act for a specified reason.Digest Key
				Vote:
				MAJORITY  
				Appropriation:
				NO  
					Fiscal Committee:
					YES  
				Local Program:
                                YES  Bill TextThe people of the State of California do enact as follows:SECTION 1. Section 18520 of the Elections Code is amended to read:18520. A person shall not directly or through another person give, offer, or promise any office, place, or employment, or promise to procure or endeavor to procure any office, place, or employment to or for any voter, or to or for any other another person, in order to induce that voter at any election to do any of the following:(a) Register to vote.(b) Vote at an election.(a)(c) Refrain from voting.(b)(d) Vote for any
				  a particular person.(c)(e) Refrain from voting for any a particular person.A violation of any of the provisions of this section shall be punishable by imprisonment in the state prison for 16 months or two or three years. This section shall
				  not be construed to prohibit a person from offering or accepting transportation to or from a polling place or other location where a ballot may be cast.SEC. 2. Section 18521 of the Elections Code is amended to read:18521. A person shall not directly or through any other another person receive, agree, or contract for, before, during or after an election, any money, gift, loan, or other valuable consideration, office, place, or employment for himself or any other herself or another person because he or any other
				  she or another
				  person did any of the following:(a) Voted.(a)(b) Voted, agreed to vote, refrained from voting, or agreed to refrain from voting for any
				  a particular person or measure.(b)(c) Remained away from the polls.(c)(d) Refrained or agreed to refrain from voting.(d)(e) Induced any other person to do any of the following:(1) Vote.(1)(2) Remain away from the polls.(2)(3) Refrain from voting.(3)(4) Vote or refrain from voting for any a particular person or measure.Any person violating this section is punishable by imprisonment in the state prison for 16 months or two or three years.
				  This section shall not be construed to prohibit a person from offering or accepting transportation to or from a polling place or other location where a ballot may be cast.SEC. 3. Section 18522 of the Elections Code is amended to read:18522. Neither a person nor a controlled committee shall directly or through any other another person or controlled committee pay, lend, or contribute, or offer or promise to pay, lend, or contribute, any money or other valuable consideration to or for any a voter or to or for any other
				  another person to do any of the following:(a) Induce any a voter to do any of the following:(1) Refrain from voting at any an election.(2) Vote or refrain from voting at an election for any
				  a particular person or measure.(3) Remain away from the polls at an election.(4) Vote at an election.(b) Reward any a voter for having done any of the following:(1) Refrained from voting.(2) Voted for any
				  a particular person or measure.(3) Refrained from voting for any a
				  particular person or measure.(4) Remained away from the polls at an election.(5) Voted.Any person or candidate violating this section is punishable by imprisonment in the state prison for 16 months or two or three years. This section shall not be construed to prohibit a person from offering or accepting transportation to or from a polling place or other location where a ballot may be cast.SEC. 4. Section 18522.5 is added to the Elections Code, to read:18522.5. (a) A person or a committee shall not directly or through another person or committee pay, lend, or contribute, or offer or promise to pay, lend, or contribute, any money, gift, loan, or other valuable consideration to any person for registering to vote.(b) A person shall not receive, contract to receive, or conspire to receive any money, gift, loan, or other valuable consideration for registering to vote.(c) A violation of this section by a person, committee, or candidate is punishable by imprisonment in the state prison for 16 months or two or three years.SEC. 5. Section 18540 of the Elections Code is amended to read:18540. (a) Every person who makes use of or threatens to make use of any force, violence, or tactic of coercion or intimidation, to induce or compel any other another person to register to vote, vote at an election, or refrain from voting at any
				  an election or to vote or refrain from voting for any a particular person or measure at any an election, or because any a person voted or refrained from voting at any an election or voted or refrained from voting for any
				  a particular person or measure at any an election is guilty of a felony punishable by imprisonment in the state prison for 16 months or two or three years.(b) Every person who hires or arranges for any other another person to make use of or threaten to make use of any force, violence, or tactic of coercion or intimidation, to induce or compel any other
				  another person to register to vote, vote at an election, or refrain from voting at any an election or to vote or refrain from voting for any a particular person or measure at any an election,
				  or because any
				  a person voted or refrained from voting at any an election or voted or refrained from voting for any a particular person or measure at any an election is guilty of a felony punishable by imprisonment in the state prison for 16 months or two or three years.SEC. 6. No reimbursement is required by this act pursuant to Section 6 of Article XIII B of the California Constitution because the only costs that may be incurred by a local agency or school district will be incurred because this act creates a new crime or infraction, eliminates a crime or infraction, or changes the penalty for a crime or infraction, within the meaning of Section 17556 of the Government Code, or changes the definition of a crime within the meaning of Section 6 of Article XIII B of the California Constitution.