Amended  
							 IN 
								Assembly 
							 April 21, 2009
								CALIFORNIA LEGISLATURE— 
								2009–2010 REGULAR SESSION
								Assembly Bill
							No. 1147Introduced  by 
							Assembly Member
						ArambulaFebruary 27, 2009 An act to add Section 117611 118276 to the Health and Safety Code, relating to public health. LEGISLATIVE COUNSEL'S DIGESTAB 1147, as amended, Arambula.
											  Medical waste: treatment, containment, and storage.Existing law establishes various programs for the prevention of disease and the promotion of health to be administered by the State Department of Public Health, including, but not limited to, administration of the Medical Waste Management Act relating to the regulation of medical waste, including, but not limited to, provisions related to the treatment, containment, and storage of medical waste. Violation of certain orders pursuant to these provisions is a crime. This bill would authorize the department to grant a treatment facility or large generator a variance to these waste management and treatment requirements approve the use of an alternative method of containerization or storage of medical waste, at the request of a treatment facility or large
		generator, if the department determines that the variance provides at least alternative method will provide the same level of public health protection as provided under those provisions and would require that 30 days prior to final approval of an alternative method, the department post on the department’s Internet Web site public notice of the pending approval, including a method for members of the public to comment on the proposed alternative method. By changing the definition of an existing crime, this bill would impose a state-mandated local program.The California Constitution requires the state to reimburse local agencies and school districts for certain costs mandated by the state. Statutory provisions establish procedures for making that reimbursement.This bill would provide that no reimbursement is required by this act for a specified reason.Digest Key
				Vote:
				MAJORITY  
				Appropriation:
				NO  
					Fiscal Committee:
					YES  
				Local Program:
                                YESNO  Bill TextThe people of the State of California do enact as follows:SECTION. 1. Section 118276 is added to the Health and Safety Code, to read:118276. At the request of a treatment facility or large generator, the department may approve the use of an alternative method of containerization or storage of medical waste, if the department determines that the alternative method will provide the same level of public health protection as existing medical waste containerization and storage requirements pursuant to this chapter. Thirty days prior to final approval of an alternative method, the department shall post on the department’s Internet Web site public notice of the pending approval, including a method for members of the public to comment on the proposed alternative method.SECTION 1.Section 117611 is added to the Health and Safety Code, to read:117611.The department may grant a treatment facility or large generator a variance to the waste management treatment, containment, and storage requirements in Chapter 8 (commencing with Section 118215) and Chapter 9 (commencing with Section 118275) if the department determines that the variance provides at least the same level of public health protection as provided under those statutory provisions.SEC. 2.No reimbursement is required by this act pursuant to Section 6 of Article XIII B of the California Constitution because the only costs that may be incurred by a local agency or school district will be incurred because this act creates a new crime or infraction, eliminates a crime or infraction, or changes the penalty for a crime or infraction, within the meaning of Section 17556 of the Government Code, or changes the definition of a crime within the meaning of Section 6 of Article XIII B of the California Constitution.