Assembly Bill
							
										No. 1080	
									CHAPTER 383An act to amend Sections 17515, 17516, 17518, 17519, and 17524 of the Education Code, relating to school districts.
						
							[
								Approved  by
							
							Governor  
						 October 11, 2009.
									
								Filed with 
							
							Secretary of State  
						 October 11, 2009.
									]
						LEGISLATIVE COUNSEL'S DIGESTAB 1080, Skinner.
											   School districts: leases and agreements.Existing law authorizes a school district to enter into leases and agreements relating to real property and buildings to be used jointly by the district and any private person, firm, or corporation, pursuant to specified provisions.This bill would additionally authorize a school district to enter into leases and agreements relating to real property and buildings to be used jointly by the district and a local governmental agency, as defined.Digest Key
				Vote:
				MAJORITY  
				Appropriation:
				NO  
					Fiscal Committee:
					NO  
				Local Program:
                                NO  Bill TextThe people of the State of California do enact as follows:SECTION 1. Section 17515 of the Education Code is amended to read:17515. Any school district may enter into leases and agreements relating to real property and buildings to be used jointly by the district and any private person, firm, local governmental agency, as defined in paragraph (3) of subdivision (f) of Section 4420 of the Government Code, or corporation pursuant to this article. As used in this article, “building” includes onsite and offsite facilities, utilities and improvements that, as agreed upon by the parties, are appropriate for the proper operation or function of the building to be occupied jointly by the district and the private person, firm, or corporation. It also includes the permanent improvement of school grounds.Any building, or portion thereof, that is used by a private person,
				  firm, local governmental agency, as defined in paragraph (3) of subdivision (f) of Section 4420 of the Government Code, or corporation pursuant to this section shall be subject to the zoning and building code requirements of the local jurisdiction in which the building is situated.Section 53094 of the Government Code shall not be applicable to uses of school district property or buildings authorized by this section, except in the case of property or buildings used solely for educational purposes.SEC. 2. Section 17516 of the Education Code is amended to read:17516. (a) Before the governing board of a school district enters into a lease or agreement pursuant to this article, it shall own a site upon which a building to be used by the district and private person, firm, local governmental agency, as defined in paragraph (3) of subdivision (f) of Section 4420 of the Government Code, or corporation may be constructed and shall have complied with the provisions of law relating to the selection and approval of sites.(b) This section shall not apply to any building to be acquired by purchase pursuant to Article 2 (commencing with Section 17110) of Chapter 16 of Part 10.SEC. 3. Section 17518 of the Education Code is amended to read:17518. (a) The governing board of a school district may let to any private person, firm, local governmental agency, as defined in paragraph (3) of subdivision (f) of Section 4420 of the Government Code, or corporation, any real property that belongs to the district if the instrument by which the property is let requires the lessee therein to construct on the demised premises, or provide for the construction thereon of, a building or buildings for the joint use of the school district and the private person, firm,
				  local governmental agency, as defined in paragraph (3) of subdivision (f) of Section 4420 of the Government Code, or corporation during the term of the agreement.(b) However, title to that portion of the building to be occupied by the private individual, firm, local governmental agency, as defined in paragraph (3) of subdivision (f) of Section 4420 of the Government Code, or corporation shall remain exclusively the personal property of the private party during the term of the lease and the title to that portion of the building to be occupied by the district shall vest in the district upon completion thereof and acceptance thereof by the school district. No rental fee or other charge for the use of the building shall be paid by
				  the district.SEC. 4. Section 17519 of the Education Code is amended to read:17519. Any lease of real property by a school district to a private person, firm, local governmental agency, as defined in paragraph (3) of subdivision (f) of Section 4420 of the Government Code, or corporation pursuant to this article shall be upon the terms and conditions as the parties thereto may agree and may be entered into without complying with any provisions of this code except as provided in this article. However, any lease or agreement pursuant to this article shall be subject to Article 7 (commencing with Section 35230) of Chapter 2 of Part 21.SEC. 5. Section 17524 of the Education Code is amended to read:17524. (a) After considering all proposals submitted, the governing board of the school district may, subject to Section 17525, select the plan or proposal that best meets the needs of the school district and enter into a contract incorporating that plan or proposal either as submitted or as revised by the governing board of the school district. However, the governing board shall not approve any proposal nor enter into a lease or contract incorporating a proposal until the governing board has submitted the proposal to the State Board of Education, and the State Board of Education has approved the proposal. The State Board of Education shall, within 45 days of the date of submission, notify the governing board of its approval or disapproval.(b) The governing board shall require any person, firm,
				  local governmental agency, as defined in paragraph (3) of subdivision (f) of Section 4420 of the Government Code, or corporation with whom it enters into a lease or agreement pursuant to this article to file one of the following, as determined by the governing board:(1) A bond for the performance of the lease or agreement.(2) An irrevocable letter of credit issued by a state or national bank or a federal or state credit union for the performance of the lease or agreement.