CALIFORNIA LEGISLATURE— 
								2009–2010 REGULAR SESSION
								Assembly Bill
							No. 1074Introduced  by 
							Assembly Member
						ConwayFebruary 27, 2009 An act to amend Section 7027.3 of the Business and Professions Code, relating to contractors. LEGISLATIVE COUNSEL'S DIGESTAB 1074, as introduced, Conway.
											  Contractors: fraudulent license numbers.Existing law provides that it is a crime if a person willfully and intentionally uses, with the intent to defraud, a contractor’s license number that does not correspond to the number on a currently valid contractor’s license held by that person.This bill would instead provide that it is a crime if a person willfully and intentionally uses, with the intent to defraud, any number that does not correspond to the number on a currently valid contractor’s license held by that person.Because a violation of the bill’s provisions would be punished as a crime, this bill would impose a state-mandated local program.The California Constitution requires the state to reimburse local agencies and school districts for certain costs mandated by the state. Statutory provisions establish procedures for making that reimbursement.This bill would provide that no reimbursement is required by this act for a specified reason.Digest Key
				Vote:
				MAJORITY  
				Appropriation:
				NO  
					Fiscal Committee:
					YES  
				Local Program:
                                YES  Bill TextThe people of the State of California do enact as follows:SECTION 1. Section 7027.3 of the Business and Professions Code is amended to read:7027.3. Any person, licensed or unlicensed, who willfully and intentionally uses, with intent to defraud, a contractor’s license number that does not correspond to the number on a currently valid contractor’s license held by that person, is punishable by a fine not exceeding ten thousand dollars ($10,000), or by imprisonment in state prison, or in county jail for not more than one year, or by both that fine and imprisonment. The penalty provided by this section is cumulative to the penalties available under all other laws of this state. If, upon investigation, the registrar has probable cause to believe that an unlicensed individual is in violation of this section, the registrar may issue a citation pursuant to Section
				  7028.7.SEC. 2. No reimbursement is required by this act pursuant to Section 6 of Article XIII B of the California Constitution because the only costs that may be incurred by a local agency or school district will be incurred because this act creates a new crime or infraction, eliminates a crime or infraction, or changes the penalty for a crime or infraction, within the meaning of Section 17556 of the Government Code, or changes the definition of a crime within the meaning of Section 6 of Article XIII B of the California Constitution.