CALIFORNIA LEGISLATURE— 
								2009–2010 REGULAR SESSION
								Assembly Bill
							No. 1198Introduced  by 
							Assembly Member
						SwansonFebruary 27, 2009 An act to amend Section 18901.3 of the Welfare and Institutions Code, relating to food stamps. LEGISLATIVE COUNSEL'S DIGESTAB 1198, as introduced, Swanson.
											  Food stamps: eligibility: drug felonies.Existing law provides for the Food Stamp Program, under which food stamps allocated to the state by the federal government are distributed to eligible individuals by each county. Existing law provides that a person convicted of a drug-related felony, with certain exceptions, is eligible for aid under the Food Stamp Program, if specified drug treatment conditions are met.This bill would remove the limitation that excepts certain drug-related felonies from these provisions.The bill would authorize the State Department of Social Services to implement its provisions through an all-county letter or similar instructions from the director.By changing the eligibility standards under the Food Stamp Program, this bill would increase the responsibilities of counties in the administration of the program, thereby imposing a state-mandated local
		program.The California Constitution requires the state to reimburse local agencies and school districts for certain costs mandated by the state. Statutory provisions establish procedures for making that reimbursement.This bill would provide that, if the Commission on State Mandates determines that the bill contains costs mandated by the state, reimbursement for those costs shall be made pursuant to these statutory provisions.Digest Key
				Vote:
				MAJORITY  
				Appropriation:
				NO  
					Fiscal Committee:
					YES  
				Local Program:
                                YES  Bill TextThe people of the State of California do enact as follows:SECTION 1. Section 18901.3 of the Welfare and Institutions Code is amended to read:18901.3. (a) Subject to the limitations of subdivision(b), pursuant Pursuant to Section 115(d)(1)(A) of Public Law 104-193 (21 U.S.C. Sec. 862a(d)(1)(A)), California opts out of the provisions of Section 115(a)(2) of Public Law 104-193 (21 U.S.C. Sec. 862a(a)(2)). A convicted drug felon shall be eligible to receive food stamps under this section.(b)Subdivision (a) does not apply to a person who has been convicted of unlawfully transporting, importing into this state, selling, furnishing, administering, giving away, possessing for sale, purchasing for purposes of sale, manufacturing a controlled substance, possessing precursors with the intent to manufacture a controlled substance, or cultivating, harvesting, or processing marijuana or any part thereof pursuant to Section 11358 of the Health and Safety Code.(c)Subdivision (a) does not apply to a person who has been convicted of unlawfully soliciting, inducing, encouraging, or intimidating a minor to participate in any activity listed in subdivision (b).(d)(b) As a condition of eligibility to receive food stamps pursuant to subdivision (a), an applicant convicted of a felony drug offense that is not excluded under subdivision (b) or (c) shall be required to provide proof of one of the following subsequent to the most recent drug-related conviction:(1) Completion of a government-recognized drug treatment program.(2) Participation in a government-recognized drug treatment program.(3) Enrollment in a government-recognized drug treatment program.(4) Placement on a waiting list for a government-recognized drug treatment program.(5) Other evidence that the illegal use of controlled substances has ceased, as established by State Department of Social Services regulations.(e)(c) Notwithstanding the Administrative Procedure Act (Chapter 3.5 (commencing with Section 11340) of Part 1 of Division 3 of Title 2 of the Government Code), the department may implement this section through an all-county letter or similar instructions from the director no later than January 1, 2005
				  2011.(f)The department shall adopt regulations as otherwise necessary to implement this section no later than July 1, 2005.  Emergency regulations adopted for implementation of this section may be adopted by the director in accordance with the Administrative Procedure Act.  The adoption of emergency regulations shall be deemed to be an emergency and necessary for immediate preservation of the public peace, health and safety, or general welfare.  The emergency regulations shall be exempt from review by the Office of Administrative Law.  The emergency regulations authorized by this section shall be submitted to the Office of Administrative Law for filing with the Secretary of State and shall remain in effect for no more than 180 days.SEC. 2. If the Commission on State Mandates determines that this act contains costs mandated by the state, reimbursement to local agencies and school districts for those costs shall be made pursuant to Part 7 (commencing with Section 17500) of Division 4 of Title 2 of the Government Code.