Assembly Bill
							
										No. 1396	
									CHAPTER 392 An act to repeal and add Chapter 3 (commencing with Section 7150) of Part 2 of Division 7 of the Elections Code, relating to elections. 
						
							[
								Approved  by
							
							Governor  
						 October 11, 2009.
									
								Filed with 
							
							Secretary of State  
						 October 11, 2009.
									]
						LEGISLATIVE COUNSEL'S DIGESTAB 1396, Torres.
											  Elections: Democratic Party.Existing law specifies the membership of the state central committee for the Democratic Party of California and establishes procedures for the conduct of the committee’s meetings and other practices.This bill would repeal those provisions and would, instead, specify that the elements and practices of the committee be the same as set forth in the standing rules and bylaws of the Democratic Party of California. The bill would require the party to post
		its standing rules and bylaws on its Internet Web site.Digest Key
				Vote:
				MAJORITY  
				Appropriation:
				NO  
					Fiscal Committee:
					NO  
				Local Program:
                                NO  Bill TextThe people of the State of California do enact as follows:SECTION 1. Chapter 3 (commencing with Section 7150) of Part 2 of Division 7 of the Elections Code is repealed.SEC. 2. Chapter 3 (commencing with Section 7150) is added to Part 2 of Division 7 of the Elections Code, to read:
								CHAPTER
							 3. State Central Committee7150. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the elements and practices of the state central committee shall be the same as set forth in the standing rules and bylaws of the Democratic Party of California, including the following:(a) The membership of the state central committee.(b) The procedures for notifying members of appointments.(c) Proxy provisions.(d) The form of
					 appointment of members to the state central committee.(e) The officers, methods of electing officers, and their terms.(f) Quorum requirements for meetings of the state central committee.(g) The procedures for the conduct of committee proceedings.7151. The state central committee shall conduct party campaigns for the party and on behalf of the candidates of the party. It shall appoint committees and appoint and employ campaign directors and perform all other activities relating to campaign organizations it deems suitable or desirable and in the best interest of the party.7152. The Democratic Party of California shall post a current copy of its standing rules and bylaws for public inspection on its Internet Web site.