Assembly Bill
							
										No. 107	
									CHAPTER 80 An act to amend Sections 4802, 4808, 4810, 4848, 4848.3, 4849, 4875, 4875.2, 4875.6, 4876, 4883, 4885, 4886, 4887, 4900, 4901, 4901.1, and 4901.2 of, to amend, repeal, and add Section 4839 of, and to add Section 4841.4 to, the Business and Professions Code, relating to veterinary medicine, and making an appropriation therefor. 
						
							[
								Approved  by
							
							Governor  
						 August 05, 2009.
									
								Filed with 
							
							Secretary of State  
						 August 06, 2009.
									]
						LEGISLATIVE COUNSEL'S DIGESTAB 107, Galgiani.
											  Veterinarians and registered veterinary technicians.Existing law, the Veterinary Medicine Practice Act, provides for the licensure and registration of veterinarians and registered veterinary technicians, and the regulation of the practice of veterinary medicine by the Veterinary Medical Board, which consists of 7 members, 3 of whom are public members and 4 of whom are licensed veterinarians. Existing law requires the Governor to appoint the 4 licensed veterinarians and the Senate Committee on Rules and the Speaker of the Assembly to each appoint a public member. Existing law requires the board to ascertain, by means of examination, the professional qualifications of applicants for licensure to practice veterinary medicine and to issue a license to every person whom it finds to be qualified. Existing law requires that the examination consist of a licensing examination administered on a national basis, a state board examination, and an examination concerning the statutes and regulations of the act administered by
		the board. Existing law requires that the complete examination be given at least once each year. Existing law requires the board to waive the examination requirement and issue a temporary license valid for one year to an applicant under the supervision of another California-licensed veterinarian under specified conditions.Existing law requires an applicant for registration as a veterinary technician to meet specified age and education requirements, to pass a written and practical examination, and to register with the board. Existing law authorizes the board to issue citations to, place on probation, and revoke or suspend the license of, a licensed veterinarian who violates the act. Existing law authorizes the board to revoke or suspend the registration of a registered
		veterinary technician who violates the act. Under existing law, veterinary licenses and veterinary technician registrations expire after a 2-year term, but may be renewed at any time within 5 years after expiration, as specified. Under existing law, revoked licenses are subject to expiration, and, if a revoked license is reinstated, specified fees are required to be paid.This bill would specify that the Governor shall appoint 5 members to the board, including one public member. The bill would require that the state board examination for licensure as a
		veterinarian be given at least twice each year, would require the board to waive the examination requirement and issue a license to an applicant if he or she meets certain requirements, including holding a license in good standing in another state and having practiced clinical veterinary medicine for a specified amount of time, and would also revise the requirements for issuance of a temporary license to practice veterinary medicine.The bill would modify the examination requirements for registration as a veterinary technician on and after January 1, 2011, to instead require that an
		applicant for registration pass both a national licensing examination and an examination specific to the animal health care tasks limited to California registered veterinary technicians, as approved by the board. The bill would also authorize the board to assess fines on and issue citations to, and place on probation, a registered veterinary technician who violates the Veterinary Medicine Practice Act. The bill would make the provisions of the act relative to revocation and reinstatement of licenses applicable to veterinary technician registrations. Because fees for the reinstatement of a revoked veterinary technician registration collected by the board pursuant to these provisions would be deposited in the Veterinary Medical Board Contingent Fund, which is a continuously
		appropriated fund, the bill would make an appropriation.Digest Key
				Vote:
				MAJORITY  
				Appropriation:
				YES  
					Fiscal Committee:
					YES  
				Local Program:
                                NO  Bill TextThe people of the State of California do enact as follows:SECTION 1. Section 4802 of the Business and Professions Code is amended to read:4802. The members of the board shall hold office for a term of four years. Each member shall serve until the appointment and qualification of his or her successor or until one year shall have elapsed since the expiration of the term for which he or she was appointed, whichever first occurs. A member may be reappointed subject to the limitation contained in Section 4801.Vacancies occurring shall be filled by appointment for the unexpired term, within 90 days after they occur.The Governor shall appoint five members, one of whom shall be a public member. The Senate Committee on Rules and the Speaker of the Assembly shall each appoint a public member.SEC. 2. Section 4808 of the Business and Professions Code is amended to read:4808. The board may in accordance with the provisions of the Administrative Procedure Act, adopt, amend, or repeal rules and regulations that are reasonably necessary to carry into effect the provisions of this chapter. The board may hold meetings that are necessary for the transaction of business. It shall issue all licenses to practice veterinary medicine and all registrations to practice as a veterinary technician in this state.SEC. 3. Section 4810 of the Business and Professions Code is amended to read:4810. As used in this chapter:(a) “Board” means the Veterinary Medical Board.(b) “Committee” means the Registered Veterinary Technician Committee.(c) “Regulations” means the rules and regulations set forth in Division 20 (commencing with Section 2000) of Title 16 of the California Code of Regulations.SEC. 4. Section 4839 of the Business and Professions Code is amended to read:4839. (a) For purposes of this article, a registered veterinary technician means a person who has met the requirements of Section 4841.5, has passed the written and practical examination, and is registered by the board.(b) This section shall remain in effect only until January 1, 2011, and as of that date is repealed, unless a later enacted statute, that is enacted before January 1, 2011, deletes or extends that date.SEC. 5. Section 4839 is added to the Business and Professions Code, to read:4839. (a) For purposes of this article, a registered veterinary technician means a person who has met the requirements set forth in Sections 4841.4 and 4841.5, and is registered by the board.(b) This section shall become operative on January 1, 2011.SEC. 6. Section 4841.4 is added to the Business and Professions Code, to read:4841.4. (a)  The board shall, by means of examination, determine the professional qualifications of all applicants who wish to register as veterinary technicians in California. No registration shall be issued to anyone who has not demonstrated his or her competency by examination.(b) Subject to subdivision (d), the examination for veterinary technicians shall consist of both of the following:(1) A national licensing examination.(2) An examination specific to the animal health care tasks limited to California registered veterinary technicians, as approved by the board.(c) The examinations may be given at the same time or at different times as determined by the board. For examination purposes, the board may make
				  contractual arrangements on a sole source basis with organizations furnishing examination material as it may deem desirable and shall be exempt from Section 10115 of the Public Contract Code.(d) The national licensing examination shall be implemented upon availability of the computerized examination on or after January 1, 2011.SEC. 7. Section 4848 of the Business and Professions Code is amended to read:4848. (a) (1) The board shall, by means of examination, ascertain the professional qualifications of all applicants for licenses to practice veterinary medicine in this state and shall issue a license to every person whom it finds to be qualified. No license shall be issued to anyone who has not demonstrated his or her competency by examination.(2) The examination shall consist of each of the following:(A) A licensing examination that is administered on a national basis.(B) A California state board examination.(C) An examination concerning those statutes and regulations of the Veterinary Medicine Practice Act administered by the board. The examination shall be administered by mail and provided to applicants within 10 to 20 days of eligibility determination. The board shall have 10 to 20 days from the date of receipt to process the examination and provide candidates with the results of the examination. The applicant shall certify that he or she personally completed the examination. Any false statement is a violation subject to Section 4831. University of California and Western University of Health Sciences veterinary medical students who have successfully completed a board-approved course on veterinary law and ethics covering the Veterinary Medicine Practice Act shall be exempt from this provision.(3) The examinations may be given at the same time or at different times as determined by the board. For examination purposes, the board may
				  make contractual arrangements on a sole source basis with organizations furnishing examination material as it may deem desirable and shall be exempt from Section 10115 of the Public Contract Code.(4) The licensing examination may be waived by the board in any case in which it determines that the applicant has taken and passed an examination for licensure in another state substantially equivalent in scope and subject matter to the licensing examination last given in California before the determination is made, and has achieved a score on the out-of-state examination at least equal to the score required to pass the licensing examination administered in California.(5) Nothing in this chapter shall preclude the board from permitting a person who has completed a portion of his or her educational program, as determined by the board, in a veterinary college recognized by the board
				  under Section 4846 to take any examination or any part thereof prior to satisfying the requirements for application for a license established by Section 4846.(b) For purposes of reciprocity, the board shall waive the examination requirements of subdivision (a), and issue a license to an applicant to practice veterinary medicine if the applicant meets all of the following requirements and would not be denied issuance of a license by any other provision of this code:(1) The applicant holds a current valid license in good standing in another state, Canadian province, or United States territory and, within three years immediately preceding filing an application for licensure in this state, has practiced clinical veterinary medicine for a minimum of two years and completed a minimum of 2,944 hours of clinical practice. Experience obtained while participating in an American Veterinary
				  Medical Association (AVMA) accredited institution’s internship, residency, or specialty board training program shall be valid for meeting the minimum experience requirement.The term “in good standing” means that an applicant under this section:(A) Is not currently under investigation nor has been charged with an offense for any act substantially related to the practice of veterinary medicine by any public agency, nor entered into any consent agreement or been subject to an administrative decision that contains conditions placed by an agency upon an applicant’s professional conduct or practice, including any voluntary surrender of license, nor been the subject of an adverse judgment resulting from the practice of veterinary medicine that the board determines constitutes evidence of a pattern of incompetence or negligence.(B) Has no
				  physical or mental impairment related to drugs or alcohol, and has not been found mentally incompetent by a physician so that the applicant is unable to undertake the practice of veterinary medicine in a manner consistent with the safety of a patient or the public.(2) At the time of original licensure, the applicant passed the national licensing requirement in veterinary science with a passing score or scores on the examination or examinations equal to or greater than the passing score required to pass the national licensing examination or examinations administered in this state.(3) The applicant has either graduated from a veterinary college recognized by the board under Section 4846 or possesses a certificate issued by the Educational Commission for Foreign Veterinary Graduates (ECFVG) or the Program for the Assessment of Veterinary Education Equivalence (PAVE).(4) The applicant passes an examination concerning the statutes and regulations of the Veterinary Medicine Practice Act, administered by the board, pursuant to subparagraph (C) of paragraph (2) of subdivision (a).(5) The applicant completes an approved educational curriculum on regionally specific and important diseases and conditions. The board, in consultation with the California Veterinary Medical Association (CVMA), shall approve educational curricula that cover appropriate regionally specific and important diseases and conditions that are common in California. The curricula shall focus on small and large animal diseases consistent with the current proportion of small and large animal veterinarians practicing in the state. The approved curriculum shall not exceed 30 hours of educational time. The approved curriculum may be offered by multiple providers so that it is widely
				  accessible to candidates licensed under this subdivision.(c) The board shall issue a temporary license valid for one year to an applicant to practice veterinary medicine under the supervision of another California-licensed veterinarian in good standing if the applicant satisfies all of the following requirements:(1) The applicant meets the requirements of paragraphs (1) to (4), inclusive, of subdivision (b).(2) The applicant would not be denied issuance of a license under any other provision of this chapter.(3) The applicant agrees to complete the approved educational curriculum described in paragraph (5) of subdivision (b) on regionally specific and important diseases and conditions during the period of temporary licensure.(d) Upon completion of the curriculum described in paragraph (5) of subdivision (b), a temporary licensee shall submit an application for full licensure accompanied by verification of completion of that curriculum and all applicable fees.(e) The board, in its discretion, may extend the expiration date of a temporary license issued pursuant to subdivision (c) for not more than one year for reasons of health, military service, or undue hardship. An application for an extension shall be submitted on a form provided by the board.SEC. 8. Section 4848.3 of the Business and Professions Code is amended to read:4848.3. (a) The board shall issue a temporary license valid for one year to an applicant accepted into a qualifying internship or residency program that meets all of the following requirements:(1) Program participants have either graduated from a veterinary college recognized by the board under Section 4846 or possess a certificate issued by the Educational Commission for Foreign Veterinary Graduates or the Program for the Assessment of Veterinary Education Equivalency, and hold a current valid license in good standing in another state, Canadian province, or United States territory.(2) Program participants are under the direct supervision of a board-certified
				  California-licensed veterinarian in good standing.(3) Two or more board-certified specialists are on the staff of the veterinary practice.(4) The program undergoes annual evaluation and is approved by one or more existing organizations officially recognized for that purpose by the board.(b) The temporary license issued pursuant to this section shall only be valid for activities performed in the course of, and incidental to, a qualifying internship or residency program.SEC. 9. Section 4849 of the Business and Professions Code is amended to read:4849. The state board examination shall be given at least twice each year. It shall include all the subjects that are ordinarily included in the curricula of veterinary colleges in good standing and may include any other subjects that the board may by rule authorize and direct.SEC. 10. Section 4875 of the Business and Professions Code is amended to read:4875. The board may revoke or suspend for a certain time the license or registration of any person to practice veterinary medicine or any branch thereof in this state after notice and hearing for any of the causes provided in this article. In addition to its authority to suspend or revoke a license or registration, the board shall have the authority to assess a fine not in excess of five thousand dollars ($5,000) against a licensee or registrant for any of the causes specified in Section 4883. A fine may be assessed in lieu of or in addition to a suspension or revocation. The proceedings under this article shall be conducted in accordance with Chapter 5 (commencing with Section 11500) of Part 1 of Division 3 of Title 2 of the Government Code, and the board shall have all the powers granted therein. Notwithstanding the
				  provisions of Section 4903, all fines collected pursuant to this section shall be deposited to the credit of the Veterinary Medical Board Contingent Fund.SEC. 11. Section 4875.2 of the Business and Professions Code is amended to read:4875.2. If, upon completion of an investigation, the executive officer has probable cause to believe that a veterinarian, a registered veterinary technician, or an unlicensed person acting as a veterinarian or a registered veterinary technician has violated provisions of this chapter, he or she may issue a citation to the veterinarian, registered veterinary technician, or unlicensed person, as provided in this section. Each citation shall be in writing and shall describe with particularity the nature of the violation, including a reference to the provision of this chapter alleged to have been violated. In addition, each citation may contain an order of abatement fixing a reasonable time for abatement of the violation,
				  and may contain an assessment of a civil penalty. The citation shall be served upon the veterinarian, registered veterinary technician, or unlicensed individual personally or by any type of mailing requiring a return receipt. Before any citation may be issued, the executive officer shall submit the alleged violation for review and investigation to at least one designee of the board who is a veterinarian licensed in or employed by the state. The review shall include attempts to contact the veterinarian, registered veterinary technician, or unlicensed person to discuss and resolve the alleged violation. Upon conclusion of the board designee’s review, the designee shall prepare a finding of fact and a recommendation. If the board designee concludes that probable cause exists that the veterinarian, registered veterinary technician, or unlicensed person has violated any provisions of this chapter, a civil citation shall be issued to the veterinarian, registered veterinary technician, or unlicensed
				  person.SEC. 12. Section 4875.6 of the Business and Professions Code is amended to read:4875.6. (a) If a veterinarian, a registered veterinary technician, or an unlicensed person desires to administratively contest a civil citation or the proposed assessment of a civil penalty therefor, he or she shall, within 10 business days after receipt of the citation, notify the executive officer in writing of his or her request for an informal conference with the executive officer or his or her designee. The executive officer or his or her designee shall hold, within 60 days from the receipt of the request, an informal conference. At the conclusion of the informal conference, the executive officer may affirm, modify, or dismiss the citation or proposed assessment of a civil penalty, and he or she shall state with particularity in writing his or her reasons for the action, and shall
				  immediately transmit a copy thereof to the board, the veterinarian, registered veterinary technician, or unlicensed person, and the person who submitted the verified complaint. If the veterinarian, registered veterinary technician, or unlicensed person desires to administratively contest under subdivision (c) a decision made after the informal conference, he or she shall inform the executive officer in writing within 30 calendar days after he or she receives the decision resulting from the informal conference.If the veterinarian, registered veterinary technician, or unlicensed person fails to notify the executive officer in writing that he or she intends to contest the citation or the proposed assessment of a civil penalty therefor or the decision made after an informal conference within the time specified in this subdivision, the citation or the proposed assessment of a civil penalty or the decision made after an informal conference shall be deemed a final order
				  of the board and shall not be subject to further administrative review.Notwithstanding any other provision of law, where a fine is paid to satisfy an assessment based on the finding of a violation, payment of the fine shall be represented as satisfactory resolution of the matter for purposes of public disclosure.(b) A veterinarian, a registered veterinary technician, or an unlicensed person may, in lieu of contesting a citation pursuant to this section, transmit to the board the amount assessed in the citation as a civil penalty, within 10 business days after receipt of the citation. An unlicensed person may notify the board and file a petition for a writ of administrative mandamus under Section 1094.5 of the Code of Civil Procedure within 30 calendar days after receipt of the citation, without engaging in an informal conference or administrative hearing. If a petition is not filed pursuant to this
				  section, payment of any fine shall not constitute an admission of the violation charged.(c) If a veterinarian, a registered veterinary technician, or an unlicensed person has notified the executive officer that he or she intends to administratively contest the decision made after the informal conference, the executive officer shall forward the matter to the Attorney General’s office who shall prepare a notice of appeal of the citation and civil penalty. After the hearing, the board and administrative law judge shall issue a decision, based on findings of fact, affirming, modifying, or vacating the citation, or directing other appropriate relief that shall include, but need not be limited to, a notice that the failure of a veterinarian, registered veterinary technician, or unlicensed person to comply with any provision of the board’s decision constitutes grounds for suspension or denial of licensure, or both, or suspension or denial of
				  registration, or both. The administrative proceedings under this section shall be conducted in accordance with the Administrative Procedure Act (Chapter 5 (commencing with Section 11500) of Part 1 of Division 3 of Title 2 of the Government Code), and the board shall have all the powers granted therein.(d) After the exhaustion of the review procedures provided for in this section or if the time for all appeals has passed, the board may bring an action in the appropriate court in the county in which the offense occurred to recover the civil penalty and obtain an order compelling the cited person to comply with the order of abatement. In that action, the complaint shall include a certified copy of the final order of the board, together with the factual findings and determinations of the board and administrative law judge. The findings shall be prima facie evidence of the facts stated therein, and in the absence of contrary evidence may serve as
				  the basis for the issuance of the judgment and order.(e) Failure of a licensee or registrant to pay a civil penalty within 30 days of the date of receipt of the assessment, unless the citation is being appealed, may result in disciplinary action being taken by the board. When a citation is not contested and a civil penalty is not paid, the full amount of the assessed civil penalty shall be added to the fee for renewal of the license or registration. A license or registration shall not be renewed without payment of the renewal fee and civil penalty.(f) Any civil penalties received under this chapter shall be deposited in the Veterinary Medical Board Contingent Fund.SEC. 13. Section 4876 of the Business and Professions Code is amended to read:4876. In addition to its authority to suspend or revoke a license or registration, or assess a fine on a person licensed or registered under this chapter, the board shall have the authority to place a licensee or registrant on probation. The authority of the board to discipline by placing the licensee or registrant on probation shall include, but is not limited to, the following:(a) Requiring the licensee or registrant to complete a course of study or service, or both, as prescribed by the board, and to demonstrate renewed competence to the satisfaction of the board.(b) Requiring the licensee or registrant to submit to a complete diagnostic examination by one or more physicians appointed
				  by the board. If the board requires a licensee or registrant to submit to that examination, the board shall receive and consider any other report of a complete diagnostic examination given by one or more physicians of the licensee’s or registrant’s choice.(c) Restricting or limiting the extent, scope, or type of practice of the licensee or registrant.SEC. 14. Section 4883 of the Business and Professions Code is amended to read:4883. The board may deny, revoke, or suspend a license or registration or assess a fine as provided in Section 4875 for any of the following:(a) Conviction of a crime substantially related to the qualifications, functions, or duties of veterinary medicine, surgery, or dentistry, in which case the record of the conviction shall be conclusive evidence.(b) For having professional connection with, or lending the licensee’s or registrant’s name to, any illegal practitioner of veterinary medicine and the various branches thereof.(c) Violation or attempting to violate, directly or indirectly, any of the provisions of this
				  chapter.(d) Fraud or dishonesty in applying, treating, or reporting on tuberculin or other biological tests.(e) Employment of anyone but a veterinarian licensed in the state to demonstrate the use of biologics in the treatment of animals.(f) False or misleading advertising.(g) Unprofessional conduct, that includes, but is not limited to, the following:(1) Conviction of a charge of violating any federal statutes or rules or any statute or rule of this state regulating dangerous drugs or controlled substances. The record of the conviction is conclusive evidence thereof. A plea or verdict of guilty or a conviction following a plea of nolo contendere is deemed to be a conviction within
				  the meaning of this section. The board may order the license or registration to be suspended or revoked, or assess a fine, or decline to issue a license or registration, when the time for appeal has elapsed, or the judgment of conviction has been affirmed on appeal or when an order granting probation is made suspending the imposition of sentence, irrespective of a subsequent order under Section 1203.4, 1210.1, or 3063.1 of the Penal Code allowing the person to withdraw his or her plea of guilty and to enter a plea of not guilty, or setting aside the verdict of guilty, or dismissing the accusation, information, or indictment.(2) (A) The use of or prescribing for or administering to himself or herself, any controlled substance.(B) The use of any of the dangerous drugs specified in Section 4022, or of alcoholic beverages to the extent, or in any manner as to
				  be dangerous or injurious to a person licensed or registered under this chapter, or to any other person or to the public, or to the extent that the use impairs the ability of the person so licensed or registered to conduct with safety the practice authorized by the license or registration.(C) The conviction of more than one misdemeanor or any felony involving the use, consumption, or self-administration of any of the substances referred to in this section or any combination thereof, and the record of the conviction is conclusive evidence.A plea or verdict of guilty or a conviction following a plea of nolo contendere is deemed to be a conviction within the meaning of this section. The board may order the license or registration to be suspended or revoked or assess a fine, or may decline to issue a license or registration, when the time for appeal has elapsed or the judgment of conviction has been
				  affirmed on appeal or when an order granting probation is made suspending imposition of sentence, irrespective of a subsequent order under Section 1203.4, 1210.1, or 3063.1 of the Penal Code allowing the person to withdraw his or her plea of guilty and to enter a plea of not guilty, or setting aside the verdict of guilty, or dismissing the accusation, information, or indictment.(3) A violation of any federal statute, rule, or regulation or any of the statutes, rules, or regulations of this state regulating dangerous drugs or controlled substances.(h) Failure to keep the licensee’s or registrant’s premises and all equipment therein in a clean and sanitary condition.(i) Fraud, deception, negligence, or incompetence in the practice of veterinary medicine.(j) Aiding or abetting in any acts that are in violation of any of the provisions of this chapter.(k) The employment of fraud, misrepresentation, or deception in obtaining the license or registration.(l) The revocation, suspension, or other discipline by another state or territory of a license, certificate, or registration to practice veterinary medicine or as a veterinary technician in that state or territory.(m) Cruelty to animals, conviction on a charge of cruelty to animals, or both.(n) Disciplinary action taken by any public agency in any state or territory for any act substantially related to the practice of veterinary medicine or the practice of a veterinary technician.(o) Violation, or the assisting or abetting violation, of any regulations adopted by the board pursuant to this chapter.SEC. 15. Section 4885 of the Business and Professions Code is amended to read:4885. A plea or verdict of guilty or a conviction following a plea of nolo contendere made to a charge of a felony or of any offense related to the practice of veterinary medicine or the practice of a veterinary technician is deemed to be a conviction within the meaning of this article. The board may order the license or registration to be suspended or revoked, or assess a fine as provided in Section 4883 or may decline to issue a license or registration, when the time for appeal has elapsed, or the judgment of conviction has been affirmed on appeal or when an order granting probation is made suspending the imposition of sentence, irrespective of a subsequent order under the provisions of Section 1203.4, 1210.1, or 3063.1 of the Penal Code allowing that person to withdraw his or her plea of guilty and to enter a plea
				  of not guilty, or setting aside the verdict of guilty, or dismissing the accusation, information, or indictment.SEC. 16. Section 4886 of the Business and Professions Code is amended to read:4886. In reinstating a license or registration that has been revoked or suspended under Section 4883, the board may impose terms and conditions to be followed by the licensee or registrant after the license or registration has been reinstated. The authority of the board to impose terms and conditions includes, but is not limited to, the following:(a) Requiring the licensee or registrant to obtain additional professional training and to pass an examination upon completion of the training.(b) Requiring the licensee or registrant to pass an oral, written, practical, or clinical examination, or any combination thereof to determine his or her present fitness to engage in the practice of
				  veterinary medicine or to practice as a veterinary technician.(c) Requiring the licensee or registrant to submit to a complete diagnostic examination by one or more physicians appointed by the board. If the board requires the licensee or registrant to submit to that examination, the board shall receive and consider any other report of a complete diagnostic examination given by one or more physicians of the licensee’s or registrant’s choice.(d) Restricting or limiting the extent, scope, or type of practice of the licensee or registrant.SEC. 17. Section 4887 of the Business and Professions Code is amended to read:4887. A person whose license or registration has been revoked or who has been placed on probation may petition the board for reinstatement or modification of penalty including modification or termination of probation after a period of not less than one year has elapsed from the effective date of the decision ordering the disciplinary action. The petition shall state such facts as may be required by the board.The petition shall be accompanied by at least two verified recommendations from veterinarians licensed by the board who have personal knowledge of the activities of the petitioner since the disciplinary penalty was imposed. The petition shall be heard by the board. The board may consider all activities of the petitioner since the disciplinary action was taken, the
				  offense for which the petitioner was disciplined, the petitioner’s activities since the license or registration was in good standing, and the petitioner’s rehabilitation efforts, general reputation for truth, and professional ability. The hearing may be continued from time to time as the board finds necessary.The board reinstating the license or registration or modifying a penalty may impose such terms and conditions as it determines necessary. To reinstate a revoked license or registration or to otherwise reduce a penalty or modify probation shall require a vote of four of the members of the board.The petition shall be considered while the petitioner is under sentence for any criminal offense, including any period during which the petitioner is on court-imposed probation or parole. The board may deny without a hearing or argument any petition filed pursuant to this section within a period of two years from the effective
				  date of the prior decision following a hearing under this section.SEC. 18. Section 4900 of the Business and Professions Code is amended to read:4900. (a) All veterinary licenses and veterinary technician registrations shall expire at 12 midnight of the last day of the birth month of the licensee or registrant during the second year of a two-year term if not renewed.(b) The board shall establish by regulation procedures for the administration of a birth date renewal program, including, but not limited to, the establishment of a system of staggered license and registration expiration dates and a pro rata formula for the payment of renewal fees by veterinarians and registered veterinary technicians affected by the implementation of the program.(c) To renew an unexpired license or registration, the licensee or
				  registrant shall, on or before the date of expiration of the license or registration, apply for renewal on a form provided by the board, accompanied by the prescribed renewal fee.(d) Renewal under this section shall be effective on the date on which the application is filed, on the date on which the renewal fee is paid, or on the date on which the delinquency fee, if any, is paid, whichever occurs last. If so renewed, the license or registration shall continue in effect through the expiration date provided in this section which next occurs after the effective date of the renewal, when it shall expire, if it is not again renewed.SEC. 19. Section 4901 of the Business and Professions Code is amended to read:4901. Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, an expired license or registration may be renewed at any time within five years after its expiration on filing of an application for renewal on a form prescribed by the board, and payment of all accrued and unpaid renewal fees. If the license or registration is renewed more than 30 days after its expiration, the licensee or registrant, as a condition precedent to renewal, shall also pay the delinquency fee prescribed by this chapter. Renewal under this section shall be effective on the date on which the application is filed, on the date on which all renewal fees are paid, or on the date on which the delinquency fee, if any, is paid, whichever last occurs. If so renewed, the license or registration shall continue in effect through the expiration date provided in
				  Section 4900 that next occurs after the effective date of the renewal, when it shall expire if it is not again renewed.SEC. 20. Section 4901.1 of the Business and Professions Code is amended to read:4901.1. A license or registration that is suspended is subject to expiration, and shall be renewed as provided in this chapter, but that renewal does not entitle the licensee or registrant, while the license or registration remains suspended and until it is reinstated, to engage in the licensed or registered activity, or in any other activity in violation of the order or judgment by which the license or registration was suspended.SEC. 21. Section 4901.2 of the Business and Professions Code is amended to read:4901.2. A revoked license or registration is subject to expiration as provided in this article, but it may not be renewed. If it is reinstated after its expiration, the licensee or registrant, as a condition precedent to reinstatement, shall pay a reinstatement fee in an amount equal to the renewal fee in effect on the last regular renewal date before the date on which it is reinstated plus the delinquency fee, if any, accrued at the time of its revocation.