CALIFORNIA LEGISLATURE— 
								2009–2010 REGULAR SESSION
								Assembly Bill
							No. 1247Introduced  by 
							Assembly Member
						AdamsFebruary 27, 2009 An act to amend Section 9002 of the Penal Code, relating to sex offenders. LEGISLATIVE COUNSEL'S DIGESTAB 1247, as introduced, Adams.
											  Sex offenders: housing.Existing law, scheduled to be repealed on January 1, 2010, creates the Sex Offender Management Board, as specified, under the jurisdiction of the Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation, the purpose of which is to address any issues, concerns, and problems related to the community management of the state’s adult sex offenders, including the housing of sex offenders in the community, with a goal of safer communities and reduced victimization. This bill would make technical, nonsubstantive changes to these provisions.Digest Key
				Vote:
				MAJORITY  
				Appropriation:
				NO  
					Fiscal Committee:
					NO  
				Local Program:
                                NO  Bill TextThe people of the State of California do enact as follows:SECTION 1. Section 9002 of the Penal Code is amended to read:9002. (a) The board shall address any issues, concerns, and problems related to the community management of adult sex offenders. The main objective of the board, which shall be used to guide the board in prioritizing resources and use of time, is to achieve safer communities by reducing victimization. To that end, the board shall do both of the following:(1) Conduct a thorough assessment of current management practices for adult sex offenders, primarily those under direct criminal justice or other supervision, who are residing in California communities. A report on the findings of this assessment shall be submitted to the
				  Legislature and the Governor by January 1, 2008. Areas to be reviewed in this assessment shall include, but not be limited to, the following:(A) The numbers and distribution of offenders.(B) Supervision practices.(C) Treatment availability and quality.(D) Issues related to housing.(E) Recidivism patterns.(F) Response to the safety concerns of past and potential future victims.(G) Cost and cost-effectiveness of various approaches.(H) Any significant shortcomings in management practices.(2) Develop recommendations, based upon the findings in the assessment, to improve management practices of adult sex offenders under supervision in the community, with the goal of improving community safety. The plan shall address all significant aspects of community management,
				  including supervision, treatment, housing, transition to the community, interagency coordination, and the practices of other entities that directly or indirectly affect the community management of sex offenders. The board shall provide information to the Legislature and Governor as to its progress by January 1, 2009. The completed plan shall be submitted to the Legislature and the Governor by January 1, 2010.(b) The board shall conduct public hearings, as it deems necessary, to provide opportunities for gathering information and receiving input regarding the work of the board from concerned stakeholders and the public.