Amended  
							 IN 
								Assembly 
							 May 06, 2009
								Amended  
							 IN 
								Assembly 
							 April 22, 2009
								Amended  
							 IN 
								Assembly 
							 April 14, 2009
								CALIFORNIA LEGISLATURE— 
								2009–2010 REGULAR SESSION
								Assembly Bill
							No. 1372Introduced  by 
							Assembly Member
						FeuerFebruary 27, 2009 An act to add Article 4.4 (commencing with Section 110540) to Chapter 5 of Part 5 of Division 104 of the Health and Safety Code, relating to food safety.LEGISLATIVE COUNSEL'S DIGESTAB 1372, as amended, Feuer.
											  Food processing establishments: Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Point plans. Under existing law, the California Food Sanitation Act, a food processing establishment is required to satisfy prescribed sanitation requirements for purposes of food safety. A violation of these provisions is a misdemeanor.This bill would require a food processing establishment facility to adopt and implement a Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Point (HACCP) plan, as prescribed, including provisions for the testing of food and ingredients for the presence of specified hazards to public health. The bill would also impose reporting and recordkeeping requirements on food processing establishments
		facilities, as specified. The bill would impose these requirements commencing January 1, 2012, or January 1, 2013, depending upon the gross annual revenue of the food processing establishment facility.This bill would require the State Department of Public Health to establish minimum standards and requirements for the HACCP plans, and review adopted plans for compliance. This bill would also require the department to conduct inspections, as prescribed, and would authorize the department to increase its annual inspection fee to include, but not exceed, the cost of this additional inspection component. The bill would require a food processing establishment
		facility to test its food and ingredients, as prescribed.Because this bill would create a new crime, the bill would impose a state-mandated local program.The California Constitution requires the state to reimburse local agencies and school districts for certain costs mandated by the state. Statutory provisions establish procedures for making that reimbursement.This bill would provide that no reimbursement is required by this act for a specified reason.Digest Key
				Vote:
				MAJORITY  
				Appropriation:
				NO  
					Fiscal Committee:
					YES  
				Local Program:
                                YES  Bill TextThe people of the State of California do enact as follows:SECTION 1. Article 4.4 (commencing with Section 110540) is added to Chapter 5 of Part 5 of Division 104 of the Health and Safety Code, to read:
								Article
							 4.4. Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Point Plan110540. (a) A food processing establishment facility in this state that generates more than ____ dollars ($____) of gross annual revenue shall adopt and implement a Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Point (HACCP) plan by January 1, 2012. The minimum contents of the plan shall be prescribed by the department. 2012.(b) A food processing establishment
					 facility in this state that generates less than ____ dollars ($____) of gross annual revenue shall adopt and implement an HACCP plan by January 1, 2013, the minimum contents of which shall be prescribed by the department..(c) The department shall, by regulation, establish the minimum requirements of a general HACCP plan by February 1, 2010 January 1, 2011. The regulation shall, at a minimum, adhere to the Hazard Analysis and Critical
					 Control Point principles and application guidelines adopted by the National Advisory Committee on Microbiological Criteria for Foods and shall provide do both of the following:(1) Describe the procedures used at the establishment facility to prevent the presence of hazards, including, but not limited to, poisonous or deleterious substances or other contaminants that may render finished foods or ingredients manufactured at the establishment
					 facility injurious to health. The procedures shall include, but need not be limited to, preventive controls, monitoring to ensure the effectiveness of preventive controls, and records of corrective actions, including, but not limited to, actions taken in response to the presence of known hazards.(2) Provide for regular testing of samples or specimens of ingredients and final product at the establishment facility for the presence of poisonous or deleterious substances or other contaminants that may render the food and ingredients injurious to health.(d)In complying with this section, a food processing establishment(d) A food processing facility shall conduct testing in a manner consistent with the standards presented in the federal Food and Drug Administration’s Bacterial Bacteriological Analytical Manual and standards developed by the Association of Analytical Communities International and the International Organization for Standardization, as these standards are in effect immediately preceding January 1, 2010. Standardization.110541. (a) A food processing establishment facility shall report to the department, within 24 hours, any test result that is positive for poisonous or deleterious substances or other contaminants.(b) A food processing establishment facility shall maintain a record of all testing that is conducted pursuant to this article for a period of not less than ____ years. The food
					 processing establishment facility shall make these records available to the department for inspection upon request.110542. (a) The department, in implementing this article, may do any or all of the following:(1) Adopt rules and regulations that establish minimum standards and requirements for a product-specific HACCP plan.(2) Review all HACCP plans, as adopted by the food processing establishment facility, for purposes of determining that the HACCP plan meets the requirements of Section 110540 and any applicable rules and regulations.(b) The
					 department shall conduct inspections to ensure that a food processing establishment facility is in compliance with its HACCP plan. The inspections shall be conducted as a component of the department’s inspection pursuant to Section 110466 and the fee charged for inspection pursuant to Section 110466 shall be increased by an additional amount of up to ____ dollars ($____) to cover, but not exceed, the cost of the inspection component related to compliance with this article. (c) The department, upon reasonable grounds to suspect that food or ingredients, or both, at a food processing establishment
					 facility may be injurious to health, may order that establishment facility to test samples or specimens of its food or ingredients, or both, for the presence of any poisonous or deleterious substances or other contaminants.SEC. 2. No reimbursement is required by this act pursuant to Section 6 of Article XIII B of the California Constitution because the only costs that may be incurred by a local agency or school district will be incurred because this act creates a new crime or infraction, eliminates a crime or infraction, or changes the penalty for a crime or infraction, within the meaning of Section 17556 of the Government Code, or changes the definition of a crime within the meaning of Section 6 of Article XIII B of the California Constitution.