Amended  
							 IN 
								Assembly 
							 April 14, 2009
								CALIFORNIA LEGISLATURE— 
								2009–2010 REGULAR SESSION
								Assembly Bill
							No. 1323Introduced  by 
							Assembly Member
						Bonnie LowenthalFebruary 27, 2009An act relating to state government. An act to add Section 14236.5 to the Unemployment Insurance Code, relating to workforce development.LEGISLATIVE COUNSEL'S DIGESTAB 1323, as amended, Bonnie Lowenthal.
											  Business, Transportation and Housing Agency. Workforce development: one-stop career centers: job information.The federal Workforce Investment Act of 1998 provides for workforce investment activities, including activities in which states may participate. Existing law contains various programs for job training and employment investment, including work incentive and employment training outreach programs. Existing law, the California Workforce Investment Act, declares that it is the intent of the Legislature to deliver comprehensive workforce services to jobseekers, students, and employers through a system of one-stop career centers to, among other things, make job outreach, intake, job search and placement assistance, and other related services available in one location. Existing law provides for the payment of unemployment compensation benefits to eligible unemployed persons during the period that the person is unemployed, and
		requires the Employment Development Department to implement and administer the unemployment compensation program.This bill would require the department to ensure that information is posted or otherwise made available at all state one-stop career centers regarding any jobs that have been or will be created in this state as a result of economic stimulus funding provided to the state pursuant to the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, or from the proceeds from the sale of state General Fund infrastructure bonds. The Secretary of Business, Transportation and Housing has the power of general supervision over, and is directly responsible to the Governor for, the operations of each department, office, and unit within the Business, Transportation and Housing Agency.This bill would state the intent of the Legislature to enact legislation to require the Secretary of Business, Transportation and Housing to consider job creation when prioritizing infrastructure projects.Digest Key
				Vote:
				MAJORITY  
				Appropriation:
				NO  
					Fiscal Committee:
					YES  
				Local Program:
                                NO  Bill TextThe people of the State of California do enact as follows:SECTION 1. Section 14236.5 is added to the Unemployment Insurance Code, to read:14236.5. The department shall ensure that information is posted or otherwise made available at all state one-stop career centers regarding any jobs that have been or will be created in this state as a result of economic stimulus funding provided to the state pursuant to the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 (Public Law 111-5), or from the proceeds from the sale of state General Fund infrastructure bonds.SECTION 1.It is the intent of the Legislature to enact legislation to require the Secretary of Business, Transportation and Housing to consider job creation when prioritizing infrastructure projects.