Assembly Bill
							
										No. 1145	
									CHAPTER 385 An act to amend Section 5604 of the Business and Professions Code, relating to architects, and making an appropriation therefor. 
						
							[
								Approved  by
							
							Governor  
						 October 11, 2009.
									
								Filed with 
							
							Secretary of State  
						 October 11, 2009.
									]
						LEGISLATIVE COUNSEL'S DIGESTAB 1145, Price.
											  Architects: fees.Existing law provides for the licensure and regulation of architects by the California Architects Board. Existing law imposes various fees on licensees and applicants for a license, which are deposited in the California Architects Board Fund, a continuously appropriated fund. Under existing law, the fee for renewing a license may not exceed $200.This bill would increase the renewal fee maximum to $400. By increasing moneys deposited into a continuously appropriated fund, the bill would make an appropriation.Digest Key
				Vote:
				MAJORITY  
				Appropriation:
				YES  
					Fiscal Committee:
					YES  
				Local Program:
                                NO  Bill TextThe people of the State of California do enact as follows:SECTION 1. Section 5604 of the Business and Professions Code is amended to read:5604. The fees prescribed by this chapter for architect applicants or architect licenseholders shall be fixed by the board as follows:(a) The application fee for reviewing a candidate’s eligibility to take any section of the examination may not exceed one hundred dollars ($100).(b) The fee for any section of the examination administered by the board may not exceed one hundred dollars ($100).(c) The fee for an original license at an amount equal to the renewal fee in effect at the time the license is issued, except that, if the license is issued less than one year before the date on which it will expire, then the fee shall
				  be fixed at an amount equal to 50 percent of the renewal fee in effect at the time the license is issued. The board may, by appropriate regulation, provide for the waiver or refund of the fee for an original license if the license is issued less than 45 days before the date on which it will expire.(d) The fee for an application for reciprocity may not exceed one hundred dollars ($100).(e) The fee for a duplicate license may not exceed twenty-five dollars ($25).(f) The renewal fee may not exceed four hundred dollars
				  ($400).(g) The delinquency fee may not exceed 50 percent of the renewal fee.(h) The fee for a retired license may not exceed the fee prescribed in subdivision (c).