CALIFORNIA LEGISLATURE— 
								2009–2010 REGULAR SESSION
								Assembly Bill
							No. 1137Introduced  by 
							Assembly Member
						HarkeyFebruary 27, 2009 An act to amend Section 13995.47 of the Government Code, relating to California tourism. LEGISLATIVE COUNSEL'S DIGESTAB 1137, as introduced, Harkey.
											  California tourism.Existing law requires the California Travel and Tourism Commission to establish one or more industry marketing advisory committees, which may include noncommissioners as members. The industry marketing advisory committees are required to be structured so that they include, to the maximum extent feasible and reasonable, representation from every geographic region of the state and every segment of the state’s travel and tourism industry. The commission is required to establish procedures for the operation of the industry marketing advisory committees that will provide appropriate opportunity for every geographic region of the state and every segment of the travel and tourism industry to offer advice and recommendations to the commission relative to the development of its written marketing plan.This bill would make a technical, nonsubstantive change to this provision.Digest Key
				Vote:
				MAJORITY  
				Appropriation:
				NO  
					Fiscal Committee:
					NO  
				Local Program:
                                NO  Bill TextThe people of the State of California do enact as follows:SECTION 1. Section 13995.47 of the Government Code is amended to read:13995.47. (a) The commission shall establish one or more industry marketing advisory committees, which may include noncommissioners as members. The industry marketing advisory committees shall be structured so that, in the aggregate, they include, to the maximum extent feasible and reasonable, representation from every geographic region of the state and every segment of the state’s travel and tourism industry. The commission shall establish procedures for the operation of the industry marketing advisory committees that will provide appropriate opportunity opportunities for every geographic region of the state and every segment of the travel and
				  tourism industry to offer advice and recommendations to the commission relative to the development of its written marketing plan pursuant to Section 13995.45.(b) The commission may also establish from time to time any other committees it deems appropriate, and may appoint noncommissioners to the committees.