Amended  
							 IN 
								Assembly 
							 April 02, 2009
								CALIFORNIA LEGISLATURE— 
								2009–2010 REGULAR SESSION
								Assembly Bill
							No. 1308Introduced  by 
							Assembly Member
						Hagman
								(Principal Coauthor(s):
							
							Senator  
						Runner)February 27, 2009 An act to amend Section 2101 Sections 2101 and 2212 of the Elections Code, relating to elections. LEGISLATIVE COUNSEL'S DIGESTAB 1308, as amended, Hagman.
											  Elections: registration. Existing law specifies the qualifications for registration as a voter and excludes from eligibility a person in prison or on parole for the conviction of a felony and requires the elections official to cancel the affidavit of registration of those persons. Under existing law, a person who willfully allows himself or herself, or another person, to register as a voter knowing that the registration qualifications are not met, is guilty of a crime.This bill would additionally make a person on probation for the conviction of a felony not eligible to register to vote, and would provide that a prohibition against voting is a condition of imprisonment, parole, or probation for conviction of a felony
		require elections officials to cancel the affidavit of registration of those persons.Because the bill would create new crimes, it would impose a state-mandated local program.The California Constitution requires the state to reimburse local agencies and school districts for certain costs mandated by the state. Statutory provisions establish procedures for making that reimbursement.This bill would provide that no reimbursement is required by this act for a specified reason.Digest Key
				Vote:
				MAJORITY  
				Appropriation:
				NO  
					Fiscal Committee:
					YES  
				Local Program:
                                YES  Bill TextThe people of the State of California do enact as follows:SECTION 1. Section 2101 of the Elections Code is amended to read:2101. (a)A person entitled to register to vote shall be a United States citizen, a resident of California, not in prison or on parole or probation for the conviction of a felony, and at least 18 years of age at the time of the next election.(b)A prohibition against voting while imprisoned for, or on parole or probation for, the
				  conviction of a felony shall be a condition of that imprisonment, parole, or probation.SEC. 2. Section 2212 of the Elections Code is amended to read:2212. The clerk of the superior court of each county, on the basis of the records of the court, shall furnish to the chief elections official of the county, not less frequently than the first day of April and the first day of September of each year, a statement showing the names, addresses, and dates of birth of all persons who have been convicted of felonies since the clerk’s last report. “Convicted of a felony” for purposes of this section means conviction of a felony offense that results in incarceration in prison or parole or felony probation. The elections official shall, during the first week of April and the first week of September in each year, cancel the affidavits of registration of those persons who are currently imprisoned or on parole
				  or probation for the conviction of a felony. The clerk shall certify the statement under the seal of the court.SEC. 2.SEC. 3. No reimbursement is required by this act pursuant to Section 6 of Article XIII B of the California Constitution because the only costs that may be incurred by a local agency or school district will be incurred because this act creates a new crime or infraction, eliminates a crime or infraction, or changes the penalty for a crime or infraction, within the meaning of Section 17556 of the Government Code, or changes the definition of a crime within the meaning of Section 6 of Article XIII B of the California Constitution.