Assembly Bill
							
										No. 1134	
									CHAPTER 510 An act to amend Sections 103, 9602, and 11303 of the Elections Code, relating to elections. 
						
							[
								Approved  by
							
							Governor  
						 October 11, 2009.
									
								Filed with 
							
							Secretary of State  
						 October 11, 2009.
									]
						LEGISLATIVE COUNSEL'S DIGESTAB 1134, Mendoza.
											  Elections: petitions.Existing law requires that a declaration setting forth certain information be attached to an initiative, referendum, or recall petition or paper that is submitted to an elections official. Under existing law, a voter may file a written request with the elections official to withdraw his or her signature from an initiative, referendum, or recall petition prior to its filing.This bill would provide that a voter’s written request to withdraw his or her signature from these petitions is not a petition or paper requiring a declaration.Digest Key
				Vote:
				MAJORITY  
				Appropriation:
				NO  
					Fiscal Committee:
					NO  
				Local Program:
                                NO  Bill TextThe people of the State of California do enact as follows:SECTION 1. Section 103 of the Elections Code is amended to read:103. A voter who has signed an initiative, referendum, or recall petition pursuant to the Constitution or laws of this state shall have his or her signature withdrawn from the petition upon filing a written request therefor with the appropriate county elections official or city elections official prior to the day the petition is filed. A written request made under this section shall not constitute a petition or paper for purposes of
				  Section 104.SEC. 2. Section 9602 of the Elections Code is amended to read:9602. A voter who has signed an initiative or referendum petition, and who subsequently wishes his or her name withdrawn, may do so by filing a written request for the withdrawal with the appropriate elections official. This request shall be filed in the elections official’s office prior to the date the petition is filed. A written request made under
				  this section shall not constitute a petition or paper for purposes of Section 104.SEC. 3. Section 11303 of the Elections Code is amended to read:11303. A voter who has signed a recall petition shall have his or her signature withdrawn from the petition upon filing a written request therefor with the elections official prior to the day the petition section bearing the voter’s signature is filed. A written request made under this section shall not constitute a petition or paper for purposes of Section 104.