CALIFORNIA LEGISLATURE— 
								2009–2010 REGULAR SESSION
								Assembly Bill
							No. 1027Introduced  by 
							Assembly Member
						BlumenfieldFebruary 27, 2009 An act to add Section 25785 to the Public Resources Code, relating to energy. LEGISLATIVE COUNSEL'S DIGESTAB 1027, as introduced, Blumenfield.
											  Energy: solar energy.Existing law establishes the State Energy Resources Conservation and Development Commission in the Natural Resources Agency. Existing law requires the commission, by January 1, 2008, to establish eligibility criteria for solar energy systems receiving ratepayer funded incentives, as specified.This bill would require the commission to administer a solar schools and nonprofits program to encourage schools, hospitals, and specified nonprofit public benefit corporations to install solar energy systems. The bill would require the program to seek to encourage the greatest number of installations while effectively generating electricity through renewable energy systems. As part of that program, the bill would require the commission to administer a grant and revolving loan program for the installation of solar energy systems by those entities. The bill would state the Legislature’s intent that, upon appropriation, money from a
		specified settlement and delegated for energy efficiency retrofitting projects by that settlement be used for the program, consistent with the settlement. Digest Key
				Vote:
				MAJORITY  
				Appropriation:
				NO  
					Fiscal Committee:
					YES  
				Local Program:
                                NO  Bill TextThe people of the State of California do enact as follows:SECTION 1. The Legislature finds and declares all of the following:(a) Solar-generated electricity is uniquely suited to California’s needs because it produces electricity when the state most needs it, during the peak demand hours in summer afternoons when the sun is brightest and air conditioners are running at capacity.(b) Procuring solar electric generation capacity to meet peak electricity demand increases system reliability and decreases the state’s dependance on unstable fossil fuel supplies.(c) Increasing the state’s solar electricity generation market will bring additional manufacturing, installation, and
		  sales jobs to the state at a higher rate than most conventional energy production sources.(d) Solar energy systems provide substantial energy reliability and pollution reduction benefits, diversify the state’s energy supply, and thereby reduce the state’s dependence on imported fossil fuels.(e) There are more than 175 nonprofit hospitals and thousands of tax exempt organizations established for public benefit in the state that are potential contributors in meeting the goals of the solar energy initiative.SEC. 2. Section 25785 is added to the Public Resources Code, to read:(a) In order to further the state goal of encouraging the installation of 3,000 megawatts of photovoltaic solar energy in the state within 10 years, the commission shall administer a solar schools and nonprofits program to encourage schools, hospitals, and other nonprofit public benefit corporations qualified under Section 501(c)(3) of Title 26 of the United States Code and operating primarily for scientific, educational, service, charitable, or other similar purposes in the public interest to install solar energy systems. The program shall seek to encourage the greatest number of installations while effectively generating electricity through renewable energy systems.25785. (b) As part of the program administered pursuant to subdivision (a), the commission
				  shall administer a grant and revolving loan program for the installation of solar energy systems by schools, hospitals, and nonprofit public benefit corporations described in subdivision (a). (c) The Legislature intends that, upon appropriation, money from the settlement between the Attorney General and the Williams Energy Corporation on November 11, 2002, and delegated for energy efficiency retrofitting projects by that settlement, be used for the program established by this section, consistent with the requirements of that settlement.