Enrolled  
							 September 02, 2009
								Passed 
							 IN 
								Senate
							 August 27, 2009
								Passed 
							 IN 
								Assembly 
							 August 31, 2009
								Amended  
							 IN 
								Senate
							 July 23, 2009
								Amended  
							 IN 
								Assembly 
							 June 01, 2009
								CALIFORNIA LEGISLATURE— 
								2009–2010 REGULAR SESSION
								Assembly Bill
							No. 1096Introduced  by 
							Assembly Member
						GalgianiFebruary 27, 2009 An act to amend Sections 12220 and 12260 of the Elections Code, relating to elections. LEGISLATIVE COUNSEL'S DIGESTAB 1096, Galgiani.
											  Elections: precinct maps.Existing law requires elections officials to prepare either maps or exterior descriptions of precincts each calendar year and to make that information accessible to members of the public upon request. Local elections officials may charge a person requesting copies of the information the cost necessary to reimburse the jurisdiction for its expenses in providing the copies.This bill would require elections officials to prepare precinct maps each year and authorize them to prepare exterior descriptions of precincts. The bill would require information to be compiled for each election and made available in both print and electronic format.Because the bill would impose additional duties upon local elections officials, it would impose a state-mandated local program.The California Constitution requires the state to reimburse
		local agencies and school districts for certain costs mandated by the state. Statutory provisions establish procedures for making that reimbursement.This bill would provide that, if the Commission on State Mandates determines that the bill contains costs mandated by the state, reimbursement for those costs shall be made pursuant to these statutory provisions.Digest Key
				Vote:
				MAJORITY  
				Appropriation:
				NO  
					Fiscal Committee:
					YES  
				Local Program:
                                YES  Bill TextThe people of the State of California do enact as follows:SECTION 1. Section 12220 of the Elections Code is amended to read:12220. The elections official shall divide the jurisdiction into precincts and shall prepare detail maps, including detail maps of any subprecinct, if available, and may prepare exterior descriptions thereof, and as many copies as the elections official may determine. The county surveyor, if requested by an elections official, shall provide assistance to the elections official in the preparation of these maps or exterior descriptions.SEC. 2. Section 12260 of the Elections Code is amended to read:12260. (a) The elections official may change or alter any precinct boundaries.(b) If any changes or alterations are made the elections official shall prepare new detail maps and may prepare exterior descriptions thereof. The county surveyor shall, if so requested, provide assistance to the elections official in the preparation of the detail maps or exterior descriptions.(c) The elections official shall provide, at the request of any interested person, the following information:(1) All precinct boundary changes and alterations made within the current calendar year and the immediately preceding two
				  calendar years.(2) All precinct consolidations made within the current calendar year and the immediately preceding two calendar years, specifying the election or elections in which the consolidations were made.(3) All current precinct boundaries, including the boundaries of any subprecincts, if available, and precinct consolidations.(d) The information provided to persons pursuant to subdivision (c) shall include the precinct numbers before the change or alteration and then a description, including precinct numbers, of the changes or alterations. The description shall include maps.(e) The information described in subdivisions (c) and (d) shall
				  be compiled for each election and shall be kept and filed so as to be accessible to any person upon request.(f) The information described in subdivisions (c), (d), and (e) shall be available in both print and electronic formats.(g) The elections official may charge a person requesting information the amount needed to reimburse the jurisdiction for the actual expenses incurred in providing copies of the information required under this section.SEC. 3. If the Commission on State Mandates determines that this act contains costs mandated by the state, reimbursement to local agencies and school districts for those costs shall be made pursuant to Part 7 (commencing with Section 17500) of Division 4 of Title 2 of the Government Code.