Amended  
							 IN 
								Assembly 
							 April 13, 2009
								CALIFORNIA LEGISLATURE— 
								2009–2010 REGULAR SESSION
								Assembly Bill
							No. 1529Introduced  by 
							Assembly Member
						SalasFebruary 27, 2009 An act to amend Section 51345 of add Section 51341.1 to the Health and Safety Code, relating to housing. LEGISLATIVE COUNSEL'S DIGESTAB 1529, as amended, Salas.
											  Home Purchase Assistance Program: limitations. Community Stabilization Home Loan Program: eligible properties.Existing law establishes the Home Purchase Assistance Program, administered by authorizes the California Housing Finance Agency, to assist first-time homebuyers to utilize existing mortgage financing available pursuant to existing law. Existing law limits the term of the home purchase assistance to the term of the primary loan to them.This bill would make a nonsubstantive change to this provision of law.This bill would authorize the agency to continue in existence the Community Stabilization Home Loan Program, and would authorize the agency to place specified restrictions on the eligibility of properties, as specified.Digest Key
				Vote:
				MAJORITY  
				Appropriation:
				NO  
					Fiscal Committee:
					NOYES  
				Local Program:
                                NO  Bill TextThe people of the State of California do enact as follows:SECTION 1. Section 51341.1 is added to the Health and Safety Code, to read:51341.1. (a) The agency may continue use of the Community Stabilization Home Loan Program, and may place property eligibility restrictions on the program based on the following criteria, including, but not limited to, the following:(1) An eligible property shall meet all agency and Federal National Mortgage Associations repair, inspection, and Health and Safety Code requirements.(2) The sale price of an eligible property shall not exceed the agency sales price limits established for the county in which the property is located.(3) The eligible property shall be vacant.(4) The eligible property shall be an existing single-family, one-unit residence, including approved condominium or planned unit developments. Manufactured housing is not an
				  eligible property.(b) The agency shall not use ZIP Code, county, or any other location criteria to exclude otherwise eligible properties from the Community Stabilization Home Loan Program.SECTION 1.Section 51345 of the Health and Safety Code is amended to read:51345.(a) The agency shall administer a home purchase assistance program in accordance with this chapter. The purpose of the home purchase assistance program is to assist first-time homebuyers to utilize existing mortgage financing available pursuant to this part or Division 4 (commencing with Section 800) of the Military and Veterans Code with the additional financial resources made available pursuant to Part 8 (commencing with Section 53130).(b) Home purchase assistance under this chapter shall include, but not be limited to: (1) an interest rate subsidy to reduce the interest rate, (2) a deferred-payment, low-interest, second-mortgage loan to reduce the principal and interest payments, and (3) downpayment assistance to make
				  financing affordable to first-time homebuyers.(c) In no case shall the interest rate subsidy reduce the effective interest rate to the borrower below 3 percent per annum, nor shall the deferred-payment, low-interest, second mortgage loan exceed 49 percent of the total debt financing necessary to purchase the home.(d) The amount of home purchase assistance shall be a second mortgage loan secured by a deed of trust of second priority to the primary financing provided by the agency or the Department of Veterans Affairs. The term of the home purchase assistance may not exceed the term of the primary loan.(e) The amount
				  of home purchase assistance shall be due and payable at the end of the term, upon the sale of the home, or upon refinancing. The borrower may refinance the mortgages on the home if the principal of and accrued interest on the second mortgage loan securing the home purchase assistance are repaid in full. All repayments shall be deposited in the fund.