Assembly Bill
							
										No. 1022	
									CHAPTER 232An act to add Section 14201.8 to the Penal Code, relating to missing children.
						
							[
								Approved  by
							
							Governor  
						 September 23, 2010.
									
								Filed with 
							
							Secretary of State  
						 September 24, 2010.
									]
						LEGISLATIVE COUNSEL'S DIGESTAB 1022, Nava.
											  Missing children.Existing law provides that the Attorney General shall establish and maintain the Violent Crime Information Center to assist in the identification and apprehension of persons responsible for specific violent crimes and for the disappearance and exploitation of persons, particularly children and dependent adults. Existing law provides that the Attorney General shall establish the Missing and Exploited Children’s Recovery Network which shall consist of an automated computerized system that shall have the capability to electronically transmit information pertaining to missing children to all state and local law enforcement agencies, as specified.This bill would provide that within the Department of Justice there shall be a director responsible for coordinating California’s response to missing persons. The bill would establish this position for the purposes of assisting law enforcement agencies with the timely search and
		recovery of at-risk abducted children, maintaining up-to-date knowledge and expertise of those protocols, best practices, and technologies that are most effective for recovering missing children, maintaining relationships with law enforcement agencies and other entities responsible for the investigation of missing persons, maintaining records, and making the Commission on Peace Officer Standards and Training Guidelines for Handling Missing Persons Investigations document available to law enforcement agencies upon request.Digest Key
				Vote:
				MAJORITY  
				Appropriation:
				NO  
					Fiscal Committee:
					YES  
				Local Program:
                                NO  Bill TextThe people of the State of California do enact as follows:SECTION 1. Section 14201.8 is added to the Penal Code, to read:14201.8. (a) There shall be within the Department of Justice a director responsible for coordinating California’s response to missing persons. This position is hereby established for all of the following purposes:(1) To assist law enforcement agencies, at their request, with the timely search and recovery of at-risk abducted children.(2) To maintain up-to-date knowledge and expertise of those protocols, best practices, and technologies that are most effective for recovering missing children in a timely manner.(3) To maintain relationships with federal, state, and local law
				  enforcement agencies and other entities responsible for the investigation of missing persons in the state.(4) To maintain records and make the Commission on Peace Officer Standards and Training Guidelines for Handling Missing Persons Investigations document available to law enforcement agencies upon request.(b) The director shall utilize existing resources and expertise within the Attorney General’s office to the maximum extent possible to accomplish the purposes specified in subdivision (a).