CALIFORNIA LEGISLATURE— 
								2009–2010 REGULAR SESSION
								Assembly Bill
							No. 1183Introduced  by 
							Assembly Member
						Bonnie LowenthalFebruary 27, 2009 An act to amend Sections 9562 and 9565 of the Welfare and Institutions Code, relating to seniors. LEGISLATIVE COUNSEL'S DIGESTAB 1183, as introduced, Bonnie Lowenthal.
											  Seniors: Multipurpose Senior Services Program.Existing law, the Mello-Granlund Older Californians Act, establishes the Multipurpose Senior Services Program to provide specified services to frail elderly individuals 65 years of age and older who are certifiable for placement in a nursing facility. Existing law requires the California Department of Aging to administer the program in accordance with an interagency agreement with the State Department of Health Care Services.This bill would make technical, nonsubstantive changes to these provisions.Digest Key
				Vote:
				MAJORITY  
				Appropriation:
				NO  
					Fiscal Committee:
					NO  
				Local Program:
                                NO  Bill TextThe people of the State of California do enact as follows:SECTION 1. Section 9562 of the Welfare and Institutions Code is amended to read:9562. (a) This chapter shall be administered by the department, under the authority of an approved interagency agreement with the State Department of Health Care Services, the single state medicaid Medicaid agency.(b) To the extent permitted by federal law, each department within the California Health and Welfare
				  Human Services Agency,
				  including departments designated as single state agencies for the programs described in Section 9561, shall waive regulations and general policies and make resources available which are necessary for the administration of this chapter, upon request of the agency.SEC. 2. Section 9565 of the Welfare and Institutions Code is amended to read:9565. The department shall do all of the following:(a) Enter into agreements and negotiated contracts with any a nonprofit organization or governmental entity to operate the local sites, consistent with the criteria adopted pursuant to Section 9563. In letting these contracts, the department shall not anticipate future appropriations.(b) Make grants to local sites from available funds.(c) Monitor local sites.(d) Cause the service sites to be evaluated in accordance with the established criteria.(e) Seek and utilize any available federal, state, or private funds that may be available for carrying out the purposes of this chapter.(f) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, local sites established pursuant to this chapter may contract with the Director of Health Care Services as Medi-Cal programs pursuant to Chapter 8 (commencing with Section 14200) of Part 3 of Division 9. Contracts with the local sites shall be deemed to be for the purposes specified in Section 14494, and may utilize funds appropriated from the Health Care Deposit Fund pursuant to Section 14157.(g) Assist in coordinating local site programs with local governmental programs and services for older individuals.