CALIFORNIA LEGISLATURE— 
								2009–2010 REGULAR SESSION
								Assembly Bill
							No. 1180Introduced  by 
							Assembly Member
						NestandeFebruary 27, 2009 An act to add Section 92612.5 to the Education Code, relating to the University of California. LEGISLATIVE COUNSEL'S DIGESTAB 1180, as introduced, Nestande.
											  University of California: employee compensation: report.Existing law establishes the Regents of the University of California and provides for the administration of the university by the regents. Existing law authorizes the regents to meet in closed session for certain purposes, including to consider or discuss matters concerning the appointment, employment, performance, or dismissal of university officers or employees, excluding individual regents other than the president of the university. However, existing law requires that action taken by a committee of the regents, and final action by the full board of regents, on a proposal for the compensation package of specified executive officers occur in an open session of each of those bodies and include a disclosure of the compensation package and rationale for the action.This bill would require the regents, on or before July 1 of each year, to submit a report to the Legislature describing expenditures on compensation packages
		and retirement benefits for employees and officers of the university and identifying the sources of funds for those exepnditures. The bill would express the intent of the Legislature that the appropriate policy committee of the Assembly or the Senate, or both, hold a hearing each year regarding the report.Digest Key
				Vote:
				MAJORITY  
				Appropriation:
				NO  
					Fiscal Committee:
					YES  
				Local Program:
                                NO  Bill TextThe people of the State of California do enact as follows:SECTION 1. Section 92612.5 is added to the Education Code, to read:92612.5. (a) On or before July 1 of each year, the Regents of the University of California shall submit to the Legislature a report detailing expenditures during the preceding fiscal year on compensation and retirement benefits for employees and officers of the University of California, including, but not limited to, expenditures on salaries, benefits, severance payments, retirement bonuses, and other financial bonuses and incentives. The report shall identify the sources of funds for each of these expenditures.(b) It is the intent of the Legislature that the appropriate policy committee of the Assembly or the Senate, or both, hold a hearing each year regarding the report required by this section.