Assembly Bill
							
										No. 1464	
									CHAPTER 396 An act to add Article 2.5 (commencing with Section 889) to Chapter 8 of Division 1 of the Streets and Highways Code, relating to transportation. 
						
							[
								Approved  by
							
							Governor  
						 October 11, 2009.
									
								Filed with 
							
							Secretary of State  
						 October 11, 2009.
									]
						LEGISLATIVE COUNSEL'S DIGESTAB 1464, Smyth.
											  Transportation: California Bicycle Routes of National, State, or Regional Significance Act.Existing law requires the Department of Transportation, in cooperation with county and city governments, to establish minimum safety design criteria for the planning and construction of bikeways and roadways where bicycle travel is permitted.This bill would enact the California Bicycle Routes of National, State, or Regional Significance Act, which would authorize the department to establish a process for identifying and promoting bicycle routes of national, state, or regional significance, as specified. The bill would authorize the department to form an advisory committee to help implement the process for identifying and promoting these bicycle routes. The bill would authorize the department to establish a process for organizations, including, but not limited to, local bicycle organizations, private entities, or local or state governmental entities, to nominate a route for inclusion in the system of bicycle routes of
		national, state, or regional significance. The bill would authorize the department to install bicycle route signs identifying these bicycle routes, as specified. The bill would provide that applicants or nominating entities may pay the cost for bicycle route signs, as determined by the department.Digest Key
				Vote:
				MAJORITY  
				Appropriation:
				NO  
					Fiscal Committee:
					YES  
				Local Program:
                                NO  Bill TextThe people of the State of California do enact as follows:SECTION 1. The Legislature finds and declares all of the following:(a) Bicycle-related transactions resulted in nearly $1.5 billion in sales in California last year, creating and sustaining jobs and generating tax revenues to support state and local economies. (b) Cycling not only results in economic benefits to the state but health benefits to cyclists as well, providing California residents with a low-impact alternative to other fitness and recreational pursuits. (c) Cycling can play an important part in helping California meet its carbon reduction goals. (d) Cycling tourism is a growing industry and California’s mild weather and diversity of topography and landscape, including the wine country, the coast, the inland valleys, and the Sierra Nevada, provide California with unique attributes that can attract a large share of this tourism industry. (e) Many states have already invested considerable resources to attract cycling tourism and Californians have demonstrated their interest in cycling as an estimated 2 million spectators attended the Tour of California, placing it as the most attended spectator event in California on record and demonstrating the interest of Californians in increased cycling opportunities. (f) In October 2008, the American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials approved a plan to create a National Corridor Plan, which seeks to identify corridors connecting America’s urban,
		  suburban, and rural landscapes covering over 50,000 miles.(g) Given the state’s current fiscal condition, the cycling community does not envision a substantial infusion of state resources into cycling. Therefore, the cycling community is looking to partner with the state to identify ways in which to spur economic activity through this growing trend in cycling. SEC. 2. Article 2.5 (commencing with Section 889) is added to Chapter 8 of Division 1 of the Streets and Highways Code, to read:
								Article
							 2.5. California Bicycle Routes of National, State, or Regional Significance889. This article shall be known and may be cited as the California Bicycle Routes of National, State, or Regional Significance Act.889.1. (a) The department may establish a process for identifying and promoting bicycle routes of national, state, or regional significance that meet specified criteria. (b) In designating routes, the department may consider the following: (1) Historic routes. (2) Established training routes or other designated routes, including legs of the Tour of California. (3) Routes of unique scenic significance. (c) In identifying bicycle routes of national, state, or regional significance, the
					 department may work with the California Travel and Tourism Commission, the Department of Parks and Recreation, federal agencies that operate and maintain roadways for public use, statewide trade organizations, including the California Chamber of Commerce and the California Bicycle Coalition, local tourism entities, chambers of commerce, and local bicycle organizations. (d) The department may form an advisory committee to help implement the provisions of this section. The department may establish a process whereby organizations, including, but not limited to, local bicycle organizations, private entities, or local or state governmental entities may nominate a route for inclusion in the system of bicycle routes of national, state, or regional significance. (e) The department may develop criteria for the design, placement, and installation of signs relative to bicycle routes of
					 national, state, or regional significance. (f) It is the intent of the Legislature that city or county participation in establishing local routes of significance under this article shall be voluntary, similar to the State Scenic Highway Program. 889.2. (a) The department may install bicycle route signs, identifying bicycle routes of national, state, or regional significance, that are associated only with the state highway system, which includes state highways, United States highways, and interstate freeways, and state-financed public transportation systems. The physical placement of bicycle route signs on all other roads and transit systems shall be left to the appropriate local jurisdiction. However, when requested by a city or county and reimbursed, the department shall place bicycle route signs on the state highway system and state-financed public transportation systems that direct traffic to bicycle routes on city or county roads. (b) Bicycle route signs shall meet the standards and
					 specifications established pursuant to Section 21400 of the Vehicle Code.(c) The cost to purchase, erect, and maintain bicycle route signs may be paid by applicants or nominating entities, as determined by the department. These costs may be reimbursed to the department at their actual cost, including administrative expenses.