Amended  
							 IN 
								Assembly 
							 May 05, 2009
								Amended  
							 IN 
								Assembly 
							 April 13, 2009
								CALIFORNIA LEGISLATURE— 
								2009–2010 REGULAR SESSION
								Assembly Bill
							No. 1434Introduced  by 
							Assembly Member
						TorricoFebruary 27, 2009 An act to amend Sections 12838, 12838.1, 12838.2, and 12838.3 of, and to repeal Section 12838.13 of, the Government Code, relating to the Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation.LEGISLATIVE COUNSEL'S DIGESTAB 1434, as amended, Torrico.
											  Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation: appointments.Existing law requires the Governor to appoint the Secretary of Corrections and Rehabilitation and other specified positions within the Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation. Existing law authorizes individuals appointed to these positions to serve at the pleasure of the Governor.This bill would eliminate these provisions and instead create the Corrections and Rehabilitation Board, consisting of the Governor, Lieutenant Governor Controller, and the Attorney General, and require the board to appoint individuals to these positions. This bill would also authorize
		provide that individuals appointed to these positions to shall serve at the pleasure of the board, and would require the secretary to perform other duties prescribed by the board. This bill also make a technical, nonsubstantive change to these provisions.Digest Key
				Vote:
				MAJORITY  
				Appropriation:
				NO  
					Fiscal Committee:
					YES  
				Local Program:
                                NO  Bill TextThe people of the State of California do enact as follows:SECTION 1. Section 12838 of the Government Code is amended to read:12838. (a) There is hereby created in state government the Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation, to be headed by a secretary, who shall be appointed by the Corrections and Rehabilitation Board, subject to Senate confirmation by approval of two-thirds of the Senate, and shall serve at the pleasure of the Corrections and Rehabilitation Board. The secretary shall perform other duties prescribed by the Corrections and Rehabilitation Board. The Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation shall consist of Adult Operations, Adult Programs, Juvenile Justice, the Corrections Standards Authority, the Board of
				  Parole Hearings, the State Commission on Juvenile Justice, the Prison Industry Authority, and the Prison Industry Board.(b) The Corrections and Rehabilitation Board, upon recommendation of the secretary, may appoint two undersecretaries of the Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation, subject to Senate confirmation. The undersecretaries shall hold office at the pleasure of the Corrections and Rehabilitation Board. One undersecretary shall oversee program support and the other undersecretary shall oversee program operations for the department.(c) The Corrections and Rehabilitation Board, upon recommendation of the secretary, shall appoint three chief deputy secretaries, subject to Senate confirmation, who shall hold office at the pleasure of the Corrections and Rehabilitation Board. One chief deputy secretary shall oversee adult operations, one chief deputy secretary shall
				  oversee adult programs, and one chief deputy secretary shall oversee juvenile justice for the department.(d) The Corrections and Rehabilitation Board, upon recommendation of the secretary, shall appoint an assistant secretary, subject to Senate confirmation, who shall be responsible for health care policy for the department, and shall serve at the pleasure of the Corrections and Rehabilitation Board.(e) The Corrections and Rehabilitation Board, upon recommendation of the secretary, shall appoint an Assistant Secretary for Victim and Survivor Rights and Services, and an Assistant Secretary for Correctional Safety, who shall serve at the pleasure of the Corrections and Rehabilitation Board.(f) There is hereby created in state government the Corrections and Rehabilitation Board, consisting of the Governor, the Lieutenant Governor
				  Controller, and the Attorney General.SEC. 2. Section 12838.1 of the Government Code is amended to read:12838.1. (a) There is hereby created within the Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation, under the Chief Deputy Secretary for Adult Operations, the Division of Adult Institutions and the Division of Adult Parole Operations. Each division shall be headed by a division chief, who shall be appointed by the Corrections and Rehabilitation Board, upon recommendation of the secretary, subject to Senate confirmation, who shall serve at the pleasure of the Corrections and Rehabilitation Board.(b) The Corrections and Rehabilitation Board shall, upon recommendation of the secretary, appoint five subordinate officers to the Chief of the Division of Adult Institutions, subject to Senate confirmation, who shall serve at the pleasure of the
				  Corrections and Rehabilitation Board. Each subordinate officer appointed pursuant to this subdivision shall oversee an identified category of adult institutions, one of which shall be female offender facilities.SEC. 3. Section 12838.2 of the Government Code is amended to read:12838.2. There is hereby created within the Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation, under the Chief Deputy Secretary for Adult Programs, the Division of Community Partnerships, the Division of Education, Vocations and Offender Programs, and the Division of Correctional Health Care Services. Each division shall be headed by a chief who shall be appointed by the Corrections and Rehabilitation Board, at the recommendation of the secretary, subject to Senate confirmation, who shall serve at the pleasure of the Corrections and Rehabilitation Board.SEC. 4. Section 12838.3 of the Government Code is amended to read:12838.3. There is hereby created within the Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation under the Chief Deputy Secretary for Juvenile Justice, the Division of Juvenile Facilities, the Division of Juvenile Programs, and the Division of Juvenile Parole Operations. Each division shall be headed by a chief, who shall be appointed by the Corrections and Rehabilitation Board, at the recommendation of the secretary, subject to Senate confirmation, who shall serve at the pleasure of the Corrections and Rehabilitation Board.SEC. 5. Section 12838.13 of the Government Code is repealed.