Assembly Bill
							
										No. 122	
									CHAPTER 3An act to add Section 12012.551 to the Government Code, relating to gaming, and declaring the urgency thereof, to take effect immediately.
						
							[
								Approved  by
							
							Governor  
						 February 09, 2010.
									
								Filed with 
							
							Secretary of State  
						 February 09, 2010.
									]
						LEGISLATIVE COUNSEL'S DIGESTAB 122, Coto.
											  Tribal gaming: compact ratification.Existing federal law, the Indian Gaming Regulatory Act, provides for the negotiation and execution of tribal-state gaming compacts for the purpose of authorizing certain types of gaming on Indian lands within a state. The California Constitution authorizes the Governor to negotiate and conclude compacts, subject to ratification by the Legislature. Existing law expressly ratifies a number of tribal-state gaming compacts, and amendments of tribal-state gaming compacts, between the State of California and specified Indian tribes.This bill would ratify the tribal-state gaming compact entered into between the State of California and the Pinoleville Pomo Nation, executed on March 10, 2009. The bill would require that related revenue contributions be deposited into the General Fund, except as specified, and would also provide that, in deference to
		tribal sovereignty, certain actions may not be deemed projects for purposes of the California Environmental Quality Act. This bill would declare that it is to take effect immediately as an urgency statute.Digest Key
				Vote:
				2/3  
				Appropriation:
				NO  
					Fiscal Committee:
					YES  
				Local Program:
                                NO  Bill TextThe people of the State of California do enact as follows:SECTION 1. The Legislature finds and declares the following:(a) The terms of the tribal-state gaming compact ratified by this act apply only to the State of California and the tribe that has signed it, and the terms of the compact ratified by this act do not bind any other tribe.(b) The Legislature acknowledges the right of federally recognized tribes to exercise their sovereignty to negotiate and enter into compacts with the state that are materially different from the compact ratified
		  pursuant to Section 12012.551 of the Government Code.SEC. 2. Section 12012.551 is added to the Government Code, to read:12012.551. (a) The tribal-state gaming compact entered into in accordance with the Indian Gaming Regulatory Act of 1988 (18 U.S.C. Secs. 1166 to 1168, incl., and 25 U.S.C. Sec. 2701 et seq.) between the State of California and the Pinoleville Pomo Nation, executed on March 10, 2009, is hereby ratified.(b) (1) In deference to tribal sovereignty, none of the following shall be deemed a project for purposes of the California Environmental Quality Act (Division 13 (commencing with Section 21000) of the Public Resources Code):(A) The execution of an amendment to the tribal-state gaming compact ratified by this section.(B) The execution of the tribal-state gaming compact ratified by this section.(C) The execution of an intergovernmental agreement between a tribe and a county or city government negotiated pursuant to the express authority of, or as expressly referenced in, the tribal-state gaming compact ratified by this section.(D) The execution of an intergovernmental agreement between a tribe and the California Department of Transportation negotiated pursuant to the express authority of, or as expressly referenced in, the tribal-state gaming compact ratified by this section.(E) The on-reservation impacts of compliance with the terms of the tribal-state gaming compact ratified by this section.(F) The sale of compact assets, as defined in subdivision
				  (a) of Section 63048.6, or the creation of the special purpose trust established pursuant to Section 63048.65.(2) Except as expressly provided herein, nothing in this subdivision shall be construed to exempt a city, county, or city and county, or the California Department of Transportation, from the requirements of the California Environmental Quality Act.(c) Revenue contributions made to the state by the tribe pursuant to the tribal-state gaming compact ratified by this section shall be deposited in the General Fund, except as otherwise provided by the compact or by a statute directing that a portion of the revenue contributions be deposited in a special fund.SEC. 3. This act is an urgency statute necessary for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health, or safety within the meaning of Article IV of the Constitution and shall go into immediate effect. The facts constituting the necessity are:In order to allow the revenues from this act to be eligible for revenue sharing at the earliest possible time to address some of the state’s pressing budget issues, it is necessary that this act take effect immediately.