Assembly Bill
							
										No. 1330	
									CHAPTER 524 An act to add Section 710 to the Military and Veterans Code, relating to veterans. 
						
							[
								Approved  by
							
							Governor  
						 October 11, 2009.
									
								Filed with 
							
							Secretary of State  
						 October 11, 2009.
									]
						LEGISLATIVE COUNSEL'S DIGESTAB 1330, Salas.
											  Veterans: pilot project: cooperative housing.Under existing law, the Department of Veterans Affairs has specified powers and duties relating to various programs serving veterans.This bill would authorize the Department of Veterans Affairs to establish a pilot project for the purpose of establishing a cooperative housing project, as provided. This bill would require the Department of Veterans Affairs to prescribe the rules, regulations, and conditions necessary to implement the pilot project. The bill would require that any cooperative housing project established pursuant to those provisions be restricted for use and occupancy by military veterans and their families for a period of at least 55 years.Digest Key
				Vote:
				MAJORITY  
				Appropriation:
				NO  
					Fiscal Committee:
					YES  
				Local Program:
                                NO  Bill TextThe people of the State of California do enact as follows:SECTION 1. Section 710 is added to the Military and Veterans Code, to read:710. (a) The Department of Veterans Affairs may establish a pilot project for the purpose of establishing a cooperative housing project.(b) The Department of Veterans Affairs shall work in conjunction with the Department of Housing and Community Development to implement the pilot project.(c) The Department of Veterans Affairs may use existing home loan funds to
				  establish the pilot project. These funds shall be used in accordance with all laws and regulations governing the use of the funds. (d) The Department of Veterans Affairs shall prescribe the rules, regulations, and conditions necessary to implement this section.(e) Any cooperative housing project established pursuant to this section shall be restricted for use and occupancy by military veterans and their families for a period of at least 55 years.