Amended  
							 IN 
								Assembly 
							 May 06, 2009
								CALIFORNIA LEGISLATURE— 
								2009–2010 REGULAR SESSION
								Assembly Bill
							No. 1412Introduced  by 
							Assembly Member
						TorricoFebruary 27, 2009 An act to amend Section 86203 of the Government Code, relating to the Political Reform Act of 1974. LEGISLATIVE COUNSEL'S DIGESTAB 1412, as amended, Torrico.
											  Political Reform Act of 1974: gifts.The Political Reform Act of 1974 permits a lobbyist or lobbying firm, as defined, to make gifts to one person aggregating not more than $10 in a calendar month.This bill would prohibit a lobbyist, lobbying firm, or lobbyist employer, as defined, from making any gift to a Member of the Legislature employer, as defined, from making gifts to a Member of the Legislature aggregating more than $10 in a calendar month.Existing law makes a willful violation of the Political Reform Act of 1974 a misdemeanor and subjects offenders to criminal penalties.This bill would impose a state-mandated local program by creating additional crimes.The California Constitution requires the state to reimburse local agencies and school districts for certain costs mandated by the state. Statutory provisions establish procedures for making that reimbursement.This bill would provide that no reimbursement is required by this act for a specified reason.The Political Reform Act of 1974, an initiative measure, provides that the Legislature may amend the act to further the act’s purposes upon a 2/3 vote of each house and compliance with specified procedural requirements.This bill would declare that it furthers the purposes of the act.Digest Key
				Vote:
				2/3  
				Appropriation:
				NO  
					Fiscal Committee:
					YES  
				Local Program:
                                YES  Bill TextThe people of the State of California do enact as follows:SECTION 1. Section 86203 of the Government Code is amended to read:86203. (a) It shall be unlawful for a lobbyist, or lobbying firm, to make gifts to one person aggregating more than ten dollars ($10) in a calendar month, or to act as an agent or intermediary in the making of any gift, or to arrange for the making of any gift by any other person.(b)Notwithstanding subdivision (a), it shall be unlawful for a lobbyist, lobbying firm, or lobbyist employer to make a gift to a Member of the Legislature.(b) It shall be unlawful for a lobbyist employer to make gifts to a
				  Member of the Legislature aggregating more than ten dollars ($10) in a calendar month.SEC. 2. No reimbursement is required by this act pursuant to Section 6 of Article XIII B of the California Constitution because the only costs that may be incurred by a local agency or school district will be incurred because this act creates a new crime or infraction, eliminates a crime or infraction, or changes the penalty for a crime or infraction, within the meaning of Section 17556 of the Government Code, or changes the definition of a crime within the meaning of Section 6 of Article XIII B of the California Constitution.SEC. 3. The Legislature finds and declares that this bill furthers the purposes of the Political Reform Act of 1974 within the meaning of subdivision (a) of Section 81012 of the Government Code.