Assembly Bill
							
										No. 136	
									CHAPTER 221 An act to amend Section 19596.1 of the Business and Professions Code, relating to horse racing, and declaring the urgency thereof, to take effect immediately. 
						
							[
								Approved  by
							
							Governor  
						 October 11, 2009.
									
								Filed with 
							
							Secretary of State  
						 October 11, 2009.
									]
						LEGISLATIVE COUNSEL'S DIGESTAB 136, Silva.
											  Horse racing: imported harness or quarter horse races.(1) Under existing law, the California Horse Racing Board is authorized to permit a harness or quarter horse association conducting a race meeting to accept wagers on the results of out-of-state or out-of-country harness or quarter horse races, and certain other designated harness or quarter horse races, if specified conditions are met. One of these conditions is that, if only one breed is being raced on a given day, the racing association conducting live racing may import those races that would otherwise be simulcast by the association which is not racing, subject to the limitation that the total number of harness or quarter horse races imported
		in a calendar year does not exceed the number of night races imported in 1998 after 5:30 p.m.This bill would delete that limitation regarding the total number of harness or quarter horse races imported in a calendar year.(2) This bill would declare that it is to take effect immediately as an urgency statute.Digest Key
				Vote:
				2/3  
				Appropriation:
				NO  
					Fiscal Committee:
					YES  
				Local Program:
                                NO  Bill TextThe people of the State of California do enact as follows:SECTION 1. Section 19596.1 of the Business and Professions Code is amended to read:19596.1. (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the board may authorize a harness or quarter horse association conducting a race meeting to accept wagers on the results of out-of-state or out-of-country harness or quarter horse races and, with the board’s approval and with the concurrence of the horsemen’s organization contracting with the association, other designated harness or quarter horse races during the period it is conducting the racing meeting, if all of the following conditions are met:(1) The authorization complies with federal laws, including, but not limited to, Chapter 57 (commencing with Section 3001) of Title 15 of the United States Code.(2) Wagering is offered only within the racing inclosure and only within 36 hours of the running of the out-of-state feature race.(3) The association conducts at least seven live races, and imports not more than eight races on those days during a racing meeting when live races are being run, except as provided in subdivision (b).(4) If only one breed of horse specified in this section is being raced on a given day, then the association conducting the live racing may import those races which would otherwise be simulcast by the association which is not racing. After the usual deductions, including the portion for the racing association, the portion remaining for purses from these races shall be distributed equally for purses for harness horsemen and quarter horse horsemen.(5) No quarter horse or harness
				  racing association shall accept wagers on out-of-state or out-of-country quarter horse or harness races commencing before 5:30 p.m., Pacific standard time, without the consent of any thoroughbred association or fair that is then conducting a live racing meeting in this state.(b) An association that is authorized to import races pursuant to subdivision (a) may, at its sole discretion, import fewer than the maximum number of harness or quarter horse races authorized in paragraph (3) of subdivision (a). For up to two races per night, for each race that is not imported under the maximum authorized by paragraph (3) of subdivision (a) on a particular night of racing, the association may add a race to the number of races allowable under the maximum authorization on another night of racing. However, no more than two races may be added under this subdivision to the number allowable on a single night, and the total number of imported races over a
				  calendar year may not exceed the total number of imported races authorized pursuant to paragraphs (3) and (4) of subdivision (a).SEC. 2. This act is an urgency statute necessary for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health, or safety within the meaning of Article IV of the Constitution and shall go into immediate effect. The facts constituting the necessity are:In order to allow additional wagering necessary for the preservation and financial stability of the horse racing industry, it is necessary that this act take effect
		  immediately.