Assembly Bill
							
										No. 1393	
									CHAPTER 391 An act to add Section 90001.5 to, to add Article 1.5 (commencing with Section 76010) to Chapter 1 of Part 47 of Division 7 of Title 3 of, and to add Article 6.5 (commencing with Section 92660) to Chapter 6 of Part 57 of Division 9 of Title 3 of, the Education Code, relating to foster youth. 
						
							[
								Approved  by
							
							Governor  
						 October 11, 2009.
									
								Filed with 
							
							Secretary of State  
						 October 11, 2009.
									]
						LEGISLATIVE COUNSEL'S DIGESTAB 1393, Skinner.
											  Foster youth.(1) Existing law establishes the California Community Colleges, under the administration of the Board of Governors of the California Community Colleges. Existing law establishes community college districts throughout the state, and authorizes them to provide instruction to students at community college campuses.This bill would request community college campuses to give priority for housing to current and former foster youth. The bill would also request community college campuses that maintain student housing facilities open for occupation during school breaks, or on a year-round basis, to give first priority to current and former foster youth for residence in the housing facilities that are open for uninterrupted year-round occupation, and next give priority to current and former foster youth for housing that is open for occupation during the most days in the calendar year.(2) Existing law establishes the California State University and the University of California as 2 of the segments of public postsecondary education in this state. Existing law imposes certain requirements on the California State University with respect to student housing.This bill would require a campus of the state university that maintains student housing facilities to give priority to current and former foster youth. The bill also would require a campus of the state university that maintains student housing facilities open for occupation during school breaks, or on a year-round basis, to give priority to current and former foster youth, as specified. The bill would apply similar provisions to the University of California except that the housing priority for foster youth
		would only apply for residence in housing facilities for which the foster youth are eligible. These provisions would apply to the University of California only to the extent that the Regents of the University of California act, by resolution, to make them applicable.Digest Key
				Vote:
				MAJORITY  
				Appropriation:
				NO  
					Fiscal Committee:
					YES  
				Local Program:
                                NO  Bill TextThe people of the State of California do enact as follows:SECTION 1. Article 1.5 (commencing with Section 76010) is added to Chapter 1 of Part 47 of Division 7 of Title 3 of the Education Code, to read:
								Article
							 1.5. Student Housing76010. In order to ensure that current and former foster youth who are students at the campuses of the California Community Colleges have stable housing, a campus of the California Community Colleges is requested to give priority for housing to current and former foster youth. In addition, a campus of the California Community Colleges that maintains student housing facilities open for occupation during school breaks, or on a year-round basis, is requested to give first priority to current and former foster youth for residence in the housing facilities that are open for uninterrupted year-round occupation, and next give priority to current and former foster youth for housing that is open for occupation during the most days in the calendar year.SEC. 2. Section 90001.5 is added to the Education Code, to read:90001.5. In order to ensure that current and former foster youth who are students at campuses of the California State University have stable housing, a campus of the California State University that maintains student housing facilities shall give priority to current and former foster youth. In addition, a campus of the California State University that maintains student housing facilities open for occupation during school breaks, or on a year-round basis, shall first give priority to current or former foster youth for residence in the housing facilities that are open for uninterrupted year-round occupation, and next give priority to current or former foster youth for housing that is open for occupation during the most days in the calendar year.SEC. 3. Article 6.5 (commencing with Section 92660) is added to Chapter 6 of Part 57 of Division 9 of Title 3 of the Education Code, to read:
								Article
							 6.5. Housing92660. (a) In order to ensure that current and former foster youth who are students at campuses of the University of California have stable housing, a campus of the University of California that maintains student housing facilities shall give priority to current and former foster youth. In addition, a campus of the University of California that maintains student housing facilities open for occupation during school breaks, or on a year-round basis, shall first give priority to current or former foster youth for residence in the housing facilities for which they are eligible that are open for uninterrupted year-round occupation, and next give priority to current or former foster youth for
					 residence in the housing facilities for which they are eligible that are open for occupation during the most days in the calendar year.(b) This section shall not apply to the University of California except to the extent that the Regents of the University of California, by appropriate resolution, make this section applicable.