Assembly Bill
							
										No. 1116	
									CHAPTER 509An act to add Sections 1638.2 and 2259.8 to the Business and Professions Code, relating to cosmetic surgery. 
						
							[
								Approved  by
							
							Governor  
						 October 11, 2009.
									
								Filed with 
							
							Secretary of State  
						 October 11, 2009.
									]
						LEGISLATIVE COUNSEL'S DIGESTAB 1116, Carter.
											  Cosmetic surgery.Existing law, the Dental Practice Act, establishes the Dental Board of California in the Department of Consumer Affairs, which licenses dentists and regulates their practice, including dentists who hold a permit to perform oral and maxillofacial surgery. Existing law, the Medical Practice Act, establishes the Medical Board of California in the Department of Consumer Affairs, which licenses physicians and surgeons and regulates their practice.The Medical Practice Act requires specified disclosures to patients undergoing procedures involving collagen injections, and also requires the Medical Board of California to adopt extraction and postoperative care standards in regard to body liposuction procedures performed by a physician and surgeon outside of a general acute care hospital. Existing law makes a violation of these provisions a misdemeanor.This bill would enact the Donda
		West Law, which would prohibit the performance of an elective cosmetic surgery procedure on a patient unless, within 30 days prior to the procedure, the patient has received an appropriate physical examination by, and has received written clearance for the procedure from, a licensed physician and surgeon, a certified nurse practitioner, or a licensed physician assistant, as specified, or, as applied to an elective facial cosmetic surgery procedure, a licensed dentist or licensed physician and surgeon. The bill would require the physical examination to include the taking of an appropriate medical history, to be confirmed on the day of the procedure. The bill would also provide that a violation of these provisions would not constitute a crime.Digest Key
				Vote:
				MAJORITY  
				Appropriation:
				NO  
					Fiscal Committee:
					NO  
				Local Program:
                                NO  Bill TextThe people of the State of California do enact as follows:SECTION 1. This act shall be known and may be cited as the Donda West Law.SEC. 2. Section 1638.2 is added to the Business and Professions Code, to read:1638.2. (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, a person licensed pursuant to Section 1634 who holds a permit to perform elective facial cosmetic surgery issued pursuant to this article may not perform elective facial cosmetic surgery on a patient, unless the patient has received, within 30 days prior to the elective facial cosmetic surgery procedure, and confirmed as up-to-date on the day of the procedure, an appropriate physical examination by, and written clearance for the procedure from, either of the following:(1) A licensed physician and surgeon.(2) A person licensed pursuant to Section 1634 who holds a permit to perform elective
				  facial cosmetic surgery issued pursuant to this article.(b) The physical examination described in subdivision (a) shall include the taking of an appropriate medical history.(c) An appropriate medical history and physical examination done on the day of the procedure shall be presumed to be in compliance with subdivisions (a) and (b).(d) A violation of this section shall not constitute a crime.SEC. 3. Section 2259.8 is added to the Business and Professions Code, to read:2259.8. (a) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, an elective cosmetic surgery procedure may not be performed on a patient unless the patient has received, within 30 days prior to the elective cosmetic surgery procedure, and confirmed as up-to-date on the day of the procedure, an appropriate physical examination by, and written clearance for the procedure from, any of the following:(1) The physician and surgeon who will be performing the surgery.(2) Another licensed physician and surgeon.(3) A certified nurse practitioner, in accordance with a certified nurse practitioner’s
				  scope of practice, unless limited by protocols or a delegation agreement.(4) A licensed physician assistant, in accordance with a licensed physician assistant’s scope of practice, unless limited by protocols or a delegation agreement.(b) The physical examination described in subdivision (a) shall include the taking of an appropriate medical history.(c) An appropriate medical history and physical examination done on the day of the procedure shall be presumed to be in compliance with subdivisions (a) and (b).(d) “Elective cosmetic surgery” means an elective surgery that is performed to alter or reshape normal structures of the body in order to improve the patient’s appearance, including, but not limited to, liposuction and elective facial cosmetic
				  surgery.(e) Section 2314 shall not apply to this section.