Amended  
							 IN 
								Assembly 
							 April 30, 2009
								Amended  
							 IN 
								Assembly 
							 April 13, 2009
								CALIFORNIA LEGISLATURE— 
								2009–2010 REGULAR SESSION
								Assembly Bill
							No. 1452Introduced  by 
							Assembly Member
						SkinnerFebruary 27, 2009An act to add Section 38600 38562.5 to the Health and Safety Code, relating to air pollution.LEGISLATIVE COUNSEL'S DIGESTAB 1452, as amended, Skinner.
											  State Air Resources Board: cement.Existing law, the California Global Warming Solutions Act of 2006, requires the State Air Resources Board to adopt a statewide greenhouse gas emissions limit equivalent to the statewide greenhouse gas emission level in 1990 to be achieved by 2020, and to adopt rules and regulations in an open public process to achieve the maximum technologically feasible and cost-effective greenhouse gas emission reductions. Existing law designates the state board as the state agency responsible for the preparation of the state implementation plan required by the federal Clean Air Act, and requires the state board to coordinate the activities of local air districts to comply with the act.This bill would require the state board, by January 1, 2011, to develop and adopt limitations on greenhouse gas emissions that result from the production of all cement sold in the state. The bill would require the limitations to apply to cement
		manufactured in the state and outside of the state. The bill would require the state board to include the greenhouse gas emissions resulting from the transportation and delivery of all cement sold within of cement to the state when calculating the limitations.Digest Key
				Vote:
				MAJORITY  
				Appropriation:
				NO  
					Fiscal Committee:
					YES  
				Local Program:
                                NO  Bill TextThe people of the State of California do enact as follows:SECTION 1. Section 38600 38562.5 is added to the Health and Safety Code, to read:38600.38562.5. (a) The State Air Resources Board state board shall, on or before January 1, 2011, develop and adopt limitations on greenhouse gas emissions resulting from the production of all cement sold in the state. The limitations shall be applicable to cement that is manufactured outside of or within the state for sale in California. In calculating the limitations, the state board shall include all greenhouse gas emissions that result
				  from the transportation of the cement to the state as well as the emissions that result from delivery within the state. The limitations shall apply uniformly to all cement sold within the state whether produced in the state or elsewhere.(b) For purposes of this section, “cement” means a building material that is produced by heating mixtures of limestone and other minerals or additives at high temperatures in a rotary kiln to form clinker, followed by cooling and grinding with blended additives. Finished cement is a powder used with water, sand, and gravel to make concrete and mortar.(c) For purposes of this section, “clinker” means the mass of fused material produced in a cement kiln from which finished cement is manufactured by milling and grinding.