CALIFORNIA LEGISLATURE— 
								2009–2010 REGULAR SESSION
								Assembly Bill
							No. 1102Introduced  by 
							Assembly Member
						DuvallFebruary 27, 2009 An act to amend Section 13160 of the Water Code, relating to water quality. LEGISLATIVE COUNSEL'S DIGESTAB 1102, as introduced, Duvall.
											  State Water Resources Control Board: water quality certifications.The Porter-Cologne Water Quality Control Act designates the State Water Resources Control Board as the state water pollution control agency for the purposes of the federal Clean Water Act and other federal acts. The act authorizes the state board to give any certificate or statement required by a federal agency pursuant to a federal act that there is reasonable assurance that an activity of any person subject to the jurisdiction of the state board will not reduce water quality below applicable standards.This bill would make technical, nonsubstantive changes to that provision.Digest Key
				Vote:
				MAJORITY  
				Appropriation:
				NO  
					Fiscal Committee:
					NO  
				Local Program:
                                NO  Bill TextThe people of the State of California do enact as follows:SECTION 1. Section 13160 of the Water Code is amended to read:13160. The state board is designated as the state water pollution control agency for all purposes stated in the Federal Water Pollution Control Clean Water Act (33 U.S.C. Sec. 1251 et seq.) and any other federal act, heretofore or hereafter enacted, and is (a)authorized to give  any
				  may do either of the following:(a) Give any certificate or statement required by any federal agency pursuant to any such federal act that there is reasonable assurance that an activity of any person subject to the jurisdiction of the state board will not reduce water quality below applicable standards, and (b)authorized to exercise  any standards.(b) Exercise any powers delegated to the state by the Federal Water Pollution Control Clean Water Act (33 U.S.C. 1251, Sec. 1251 et seq.) and acts amendatory thereto.