Assembly Bill
							
										No. 143	
									CHAPTER 85 An act to add Section 2781.5 to the Revenue and Taxation Code, relating to taxation, and declaring the urgency thereof, to take effect immediately. 
						
							[
								Approved  by
							
							Governor  
						 August 05, 2009.
									
								Filed with 
							
							Secretary of State  
						 August 06, 2009.
									]
						LEGISLATIVE COUNSEL'S DIGESTAB 143, Jeffries.
											  Property taxation: replicated tax payments: return.Existing property tax law requires a county to return a replicated tax payment to the tendering party within 60 days following the receipt of the replicated tax payment.This bill would authorize an owner of record to instruct a tax collector, by written request, to refund a replicated payment on a current assessment to the tendering party who is not an owner of record, if that tendering party is known at the time the request is made by the owner of record.By changing the manner in which tax collectors return replicated tax payments, this bill would impose a state-mandated local program.The California Constitution requires the state to reimburse local agencies and school districts for certain costs mandated by the state. Statutory provisions establish procedures for making that reimbursement.This bill would provide that no reimbursement is required by this act for a specified reason.This bill would declare that it is to take effect immediately as an urgency statute.Digest Key
				Vote:
				2/3  
				Appropriation:
				NO  
					Fiscal Committee:
					YES  
				Local Program:
                                YES  Bill TextThe people of the State of California do enact as follows:SECTION 1. It is the intent of the Legislature, in enacting this bill, to do all of the following: (a) Address issues of adverse possession as it relates to property tax payments. (b) Address the problems and difficulties that arise when an adverse party attempts to pay taxes for property that he or she is not the owner of record. (c) Establish a clear and simplified system for the return of replicated tax payments, by authorizing tax collectors to return a replicated tax payment to the tendering party who is not the owner of
		  record. SEC. 2. Section 2781.5 is added to the Revenue and Taxation Code, to read:2781.5. (a) An owner of record may instruct a tax collector, by written request, to refund a replicated payment on a current assessment to the tendering party who is not an owner of record, if that tendering party is known at the time the request is made by the owner of record.(b) The request shall be submitted by the owner of record and shall satisfy both of the following requirements:(1) The request shall be certified by the owner of record as true, correct, and complete to the best of his or her knowledge. (2) The request shall be accompanied by a certified copy of a deed, judgment, or other instrument that legally verifies ownership of the property. (c) The tax collector shall not be required to make a determination as to the ownership of the property. (d) This section does not apply to any payment on a current assessment that is delinquent. SEC. 3. No reimbursement is required by this act pursuant to Section 6 of Article XIII B of the California Constitution because the only costs that may be incurred by a local agency or school district are the result of a program for which legislative authority was requested by that local agency or school district, within the meaning of Section 17556 of the Government Code and Section 6 of Article XIII B of the California Constitution.SEC. 4. This act is an urgency statute necessary for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health, or safety within the meaning of Article IV of the Constitution and shall go into immediate effect. The facts constituting the necessity are:In order for counties to timely and properly provide a refund of replicated tax payments to tendering parties, it is necessary that this act take effect immediately.