Amended  
							 IN 
								Assembly 
							 May 06, 2009
								CALIFORNIA LEGISLATURE— 
								2009–2010 REGULAR SESSION
								Assembly Bill
							No. 1032Introduced  by 
							Assembly Member
						Blumenfield
							(Coauthor(s):
						
							Assembly Member
						Beall, Block, Huber, Logue, V. Manuel Perez, Salas)February 27, 2009 An act to add Section 99500.5 to the Government Code, relating to international relations. LEGISLATIVE COUNSEL'S DIGESTAB 1032, as amended, Blumenfield.
											  International relations: memorandum of understanding: Israel.Existing law, the California International Trade and Investment Act, specifies that the Governor is the primary state officer representing the state’s interest in international affairs and the Business, Transportation and Housing Agency is the primary state agency responsible for international trade and investment activities in the state. Existing law requires the Office of Planning and Research to maintain, and update, a full and comprehensive list of all state agreements made with foreign governments, as provided.This bill would require the Governor to establish a memorandum of understanding to formalize a relationship between the state and Israel to foster technology development, business development, and educational opportunities in solar energy and environmental technology industries. Digest Key
				Vote:
				MAJORITY  
				Appropriation:
				NO  
					Fiscal Committee:
					YES  
				Local Program:
                                NO  Bill TextThe people of the State of California do enact as follows:SECTION 1. The Legislature finds and declare all of the following:(a) California and Israel share close ties and are global leaders in environmental and solar technology. (b) Promoting mutual business, research, and technology development opportunities for renewable energy clean technology industries could contribute to spurring innovations to the global marketplace. (c) Technology and knowledge transfer on renewable energy
		  clean technology between academic and industry research teams are vitally important to sustaining both industry-sector growth and regional economic development. (d) The state and cities, such as Los Angeles, through memoranda of understanding, have been promoting bilateral trade and tourism and exchanges for innovative homeland security training and education. (e) By encouraging new collaborative partnerships with Israel, California may be able to increase investments for renewable energy and increase clean technology, promote development of green-collar jobs, and expand employment opportunities in the state. (f) California and Israeli companies have worked together to build the world’s largest solar power plant that over nearly the past 20 years has generated approximately 90 percent of the world’s commercial solar-derived electricity. (g) The repeal of the statutory authority for the Technology, Trade and Commerce Agency has increased the importance of strengthening collaborative linkages at the federal, state, regional, and local levels. SEC. 2. Section 99500.5 is added to the Government Code, to read:99500.5. Consistent with federal law, the Governor shall establish a memorandum of understanding to formalize a relationship between the state and Israel to foster technology development, business development, and educational opportunities in clean technology, solar energy, and the environmental technology industries. The memorandum of understanding shall allow California and Israel to do all of the following: (a) Improve the strategic coordination of technology development and human capital. (b) Encourage priorities for public and private investments. (c) Facilitate collaboration among business and academics to increase global market opportunities and employment associated with renewable energy technologies clean technology. (d) Promote development and production of innovative and globally competitive renewable energy clean technology products to contribute to sustained job growth for residents of both California and Israel. (e) Set qualitative and quantitative targets to maximize total economic development on a bilateral basis.(f) Assess the feasibility of establishing an industry sector-specific consortium that could significantly increase the economic return from technology transfer and technology commercialization efforts in these industry sectors.