Amended  
							 IN 
								Assembly 
							 April 15, 2009
								CALIFORNIA LEGISLATURE— 
								2009–2010 REGULAR SESSION
								Assembly Bill
							No. 1290Introduced  by 
							Assembly Member
						ConwayFebruary 27, 2009 An act to add Chapter 5.7 (commencing with Section 19245) to Part 2 of Division 5 of Title 2 of the Government Code, relating to public employment.LEGISLATIVE COUNSEL'S DIGESTAB 1290, as amended, Conway.
											  Public employment: internship program.Existing law directs the State Personnel Board to enforce the civil service statutes, and, by majority vote of all its members, prescribe probationary periods and classifications, adopt other rules authorized by statute, and review disciplinary actions.Under existing law, eligible lists are established as a result of free competitive examinations open to persons who lawfully may be appointed to any position within the class for which these examinations are held and who meet the minimum qualifications requisite to the performance of the duties of that position as prescribed by the specifications for the class or by board rule.This bill would direct the State Personnel Board to establish a state internship program. Eligibility for an internship classification would be based upon a competitive assessment. The bill would require an appointing power to prepare written job
		performance evaluations during an internship. The final performance evaluation would contain a recommendation to the board as to whether or not to appoint the intern to the civil service classification related to the internship, and with the approval of the board, would permit the appointing power to appoint the intern to that classification, without further examination.Digest Key
				Vote:
				MAJORITY  
				Appropriation:
				NO  
					Fiscal Committee:
					YES  
				Local Program:
                                NO  Bill TextThe people of the State of California do enact as follows:SECTION 1. Chapter 5.7 (commencing with Section 19245) is added to Part 2 of Division 5 of Title 2 of the Government Code, to read:
								CHAPTER
							 5.7. State Internship Program19245. The State Personnel Board shall be responsible for the establishment of a state internship program. This program shall be designed to facilitate the hiring of college graduates in the state civil service.19246. The board shall establish rules and procedures for the implementation of this chapter, which may provide for the classification, assessment, appointment, evaluation, and appeals procedures for the program. 19247. For purposes of this chapter:(a) “Intern” means a person who has entered into an “internship agreement” with an appointing power. All appointments to the intern classification under the state internship program shall be made on a provisional basis to allow candidates to demonstrate their ability to perform the duties of the position. Interns shall not acquire permanent civil service status. (b) “Internship” means the employment of an intern in an approved program of on-the-job training and education from a recognized four-year accredited college or university. The duration of the internship for an occupational area shall be determined by the board. Inability of an intern to maintain satisfactory
					 progress in the academic and work requirements of the internship is sufficient cause for separation from the internship. An intern may also separate voluntarily.19248. (a) The board or its designee shall conduct competitive assessments to determine the qualifications and readiness of college students for appointment to the intern classification. (b) The board or its designee shall develop appropriate tests of fitness to demonstrate the intern’s ability and readiness to perform the duties for the job classification the intern will move to after completion of the internship.19249. During an internship, the appointing power shall prepare for each intern written job performance evaluations. The final evaluation shall contain a recommendation to the board as to whether or not to appoint the intern to the civil service classification related to the internship. The intern shall have no appeal from the action of the appointing power in terminating the internship, except the intern shall be entitled to an appeal only for the purpose of clearing his or her name.19250. With the approval of the board, the appointing power may appoint the intern, without further examination, intern to the civil service classification related to the internship.