Assembly Bill
							
										No. 1090	
									CHAPTER 133 An act to amend Section 1281.85 of the Code of Civil Procedure, relating to arbitration. 
						
							[
								Approved  by
							
							Governor  
						 August 05, 2009.
									
								Filed with 
							
							Secretary of State  
						 August 06, 2009.
									]
						LEGISLATIVE COUNSEL'S DIGESTAB 1090, Monning.
											  Arbitration.Existing law requires a person serving as a neutral arbitrator pursuant to an arbitration agreement to comply with the ethics standards for arbitrators adopted by the Judicial Council. Existing law also specifies that these provisions do not apply to an arbitration conducted pursuant to the terms of a public or private sector collective bargaining agreement.This bill would specify that certain ethics requirements and standards are nonnegotiable and shall not be waived.Digest Key
				Vote:
				MAJORITY  
				Appropriation:
				NO  
					Fiscal Committee:
					NO  
				Local Program:
                                NO  Bill TextThe people of the State of California do enact as follows:SECTION 1. Section 1281.85 of the Code of Civil Procedure is amended to read:1281.85. (a) Beginning July 1, 2002, a person serving as a neutral arbitrator pursuant to an arbitration agreement shall comply with the ethics standards for arbitrators adopted by the Judicial Council pursuant to this section. The Judicial Council shall adopt ethical standards for all neutral arbitrators effective July 1, 2002. These standards shall be consistent with the standards established for arbitrators in the judicial arbitration program and may expand but may not limit the disclosure and disqualification requirements established by this chapter. The standards shall address the disclosure of interests, relationships, or affiliations that may constitute conflicts of interest, including prior service as an arbitrator or other dispute resolution neutral entity, disqualifications, acceptance
				  of gifts, and establishment of future professional relationships.(b) Subdivision (a) does not apply to an arbitration conducted pursuant to the terms of a public or private sector collective bargaining agreement.(c) The ethics requirements and standards of this chapter are nonnegotiable and shall not be waived.