Amended  
							 IN 
								Assembly 
							 May 12, 2009
								CALIFORNIA LEGISLATURE— 
								2009–2010 REGULAR SESSION
								Assembly Bill
							No. 1461Introduced  by 
							Assembly Member
						Ruskin
							(Coauthor(s):
						
							Assembly Member
						Feuer)February 27, 2009 An act to amend Section 8046 of the Business and Professions Code, relating to shorthand reporting. LEGISLATIVE COUNSEL'S DIGESTAB 1461, as amended, Ruskin.
											  Shorthand reporting.Existing law provides for the certification and regulation of shorthand reporters by the Court Reporters Board of California and makes a violation of these provisions a crime. Existing law prohibits a shorthand reporting corporation, as defined, from doing or failing to do any act that constitutes unprofessional conduct under any statute, rule or regulation pertaining to shorthand reporters or shorthand reporting.This bill would additionally prohibit a firm, partnership, sole proprietorship, or other business entity providing or arranging for shorthand reporting services  any entity offering or providing the services of a shorthand reporter from
		doing or failing to do any act that constitutes unprofessional conduct under any statute, rule or regulation pertaining to shorthand reporters or shorthand reporting.By expanding the scope of a crime, the bill would impose a state-mandated local program.The California Constitution requires the state to reimburse local agencies and school districts for certain costs mandated by the state. Statutory provisions establish procedures for making that reimbursement.This bill would provide that no reimbursement is required by this act for a specified reason.Digest Key
				Vote:
				MAJORITY  
				Appropriation:
				NO  
					Fiscal Committee:
					YES  
				Local Program:
                                YES  Bill TextThe people of the State of California do enact as follows:SECTION 1. Section 8046 of the Business and Professions Code is amended to read:8046.A corporation, firm, partnership, sole proprietorship, or other business entity providing or arranging for shorthand reporting services shall not do or fail to do any act8046. Any entity offering or providing the services of a shorthand reporter shall not do or fail to do any act the doing of which or the failure to do which would constitute unprofessional conduct under any statute, rule or regulation now or hereafter in effect which pertains to shorthand reporters or shorthand reporting. In conducting its practice these entities shall observe and be bound by such statutes, rules and regulations to the same extent as a person holding a license under this chapter.SEC. 2. No reimbursement is required by this act pursuant to Section 6 of Article XIII B of the California Constitution because the only costs that may be incurred by a local agency or school district will be incurred because this act creates a new crime or infraction, eliminates a crime or infraction, or changes the penalty for a crime or infraction, within the meaning of Section 17556 of the Government Code, or changes the definition of a crime within the meaning of Section 6 of Article XIII B of the California Constitution.