Assembly Bill
							
										No. 1204	
									CHAPTER 357An act to amend Section 67951 of the Government Code, relating to transportation.
						
							[
								Approved  by
							
							Governor  
						 September 25, 2010.
									
								Filed with 
							
							Secretary of State  
						 September 27, 2010.
									]
						LEGISLATIVE COUNSEL'S DIGESTAB 1204, Huber.
											  El Dorado County Transportation Commission.Existing law requires the Director of Transportation to designate a transportation planning agency in each county for the purpose of allocating funds in the local transportation fund derived from 1/4 of 1% of the sales tax, pursuant to the Mills-Alquist-Deddeh Act, also known as the Transportation Development Act, and for other related transportation purposes. Existing law creates the El Dorado County Transportation Planning Agency, also known as the El Dorado County Transportation Commission, as the transportation planning agency in the portion of El Dorado County outside of the Tahoe Basin. Existing law provides that the agency is composed of 6 members, with 3 members appointed by the El Dorado County Board of Supervisors and 3 members appointed by the city council of the City of Placerville.This
		bill would instead provide for the agency to be comprised of 4 members appointed by the board of supervisors and 2 members appointed by each incorporated city in the portion of El Dorado County outside of the Tahoe Basin. However, if there is only one incorporated city, that city would appoint 3 members. Because the bill would impose additional duties on local agencies, it would thereby impose a state-mandated local program.The California Constitution requires the state to reimburse local agencies and school districts for certain costs mandated by the state. Statutory provisions establish procedures for making that reimbursement.This bill would provide that no reimbursement is required by this act for a specified reason.Digest Key
				Vote:
				MAJORITY  
				Appropriation:
				NO  
					Fiscal Committee:
					YES  
				Local Program:
                                YES  Bill TextThe people of the State of California do enact as follows:SECTION 1. Section 67951 of the Government Code is amended to read:67951. The agency shall be composed of four members appointed by the county board of supervisors and two members appointed by the city council of each incorporated city in that portion of the county described in Section 67950, unless there is only one incorporated city, in which case that city shall have three appointed members. The appointing authority, for each regular member it appoints, may appoint an alternate member to serve in place of the regular member when the regular member is absent or disqualified from participating in a meeting of the agency.SEC. 2. No reimbursement is required by this act pursuant to Section 6 of Article XIII B of the California Constitution because the only costs that may be incurred by a local agency or school district are the result of a program for which legislative authority was requested by that local agency or school district, within the meaning of Section 17556 of the Government Code and Section 6 of Article XIII B of the California Constitution.