Amended  
							 IN 
								Assembly 
							 June 01, 2009
								Amended  
							 IN 
								Assembly 
							 April 14, 2009
								CALIFORNIA LEGISLATURE— 
								2009–2010 REGULAR SESSION
								Assembly Bill
							No. 1303Introduced  by 
							Assembly Member
						HallFebruary 27, 2009An act to add Section 1254.3 to the Health and Safety Code, relating to the Martin Luther King, Jr. Hospital.LEGISLATIVE COUNSEL'S DIGESTAB 1303, as amended, Hall.
											  Martin Luther King, Jr. Hospital: reopening plan: working group.Existing law requires the State Department of Public Health to inspect and license health facilities, as defined, including hospitals.This bill would require the department to convene a working group of stakeholders to assist in the implementation of the plan to reopen the Martin Luther King, Jr. Hospital, in the Watts/Willowbrook area of south Los Angeles County. The bill would specify the membership of the working group, and the issues to be considered by the group. The bill would require the working group to prepare a report of its findings and recommendations pursuant to the bill. The bill would prohibit the use of General Fund moneys for the administration or operations of the working group, or for the preparation of the report.The bill would also state the findings
		and declarations of the Legislature concerning the need for special legislation. Digest Key
				Vote:
				MAJORITY  
				Appropriation:
				NO  
					Fiscal Committee:
					YES  
				Local Program:
                                NO  Bill TextThe people of the State of California do enact as follows:SECTION 1. Section 1254.3 is added to the Health and Safety Code, to read:1254.3. (a) The department shall convene a working group of stakeholders, to assist in the implementation of the plan to reopen the Martin Luther King, Jr. Hospital, located in the Watts/Willowbrook area of south Los Angeles County.(b) The working group shall include, but not be limited to, representatives of the department, the Los Angeles County Board of Supervisors, the Regents of the University of California, with the regents’ consent, and any other parties that the department deems necessary to facilitate the reopening plan.(c) The working group shall review and examine issues relating to the hospital reopening, including, but not limited to, all of the following:(1) Clarification of the respective roles of the county and the regents.(2) Selection of a suitable nonprofit entity to undertake the daily operation of the hospital, pursuant to a contract with the University of California and the county.(3) Securing appropriate funding, including making recommendations to the Legislature for necessary statutory changes.(4) Development of the hospital’s teaching component.(d) The working group shall prepare a report of its findings and recommendations made pursuant to this section.(e) No General Fund moneys shall be used to support the
				  administration or operations of the working group, or for the preparation of the required report.SEC. 2. Due to the unique circumstances concerning the Martin Luther King, Jr. Hospital within Los Angeles County, the Legislature finds and declares that a general statute cannot be made applicable within the meaning of Section 16 of Article IV of the California Constitution. Therefore, this act is necessarily applicable only to the Martin Luther King, Jr. Hospital.