Amended  
							 IN 
								Assembly 
							 April 28, 2009
								Amended  
							 IN 
								Assembly 
							 April 13, 2009
								CALIFORNIA LEGISLATURE— 
								2009–2010 REGULAR SESSION
								Assembly Bill
							No. 1189Introduced  by 
							Assembly Member
						Skinner
							(Coauthor(s):
						
							Assembly Member
						Chesbro, Huffman, Krekorian, Salas)February 27, 2009 An act to amend Sections 156 and 156.1 of, and to add Sections 156.5 and 156.6 to, to repeal Section 156.4 of, and to repeal and add Section 156.3 of, the Streets and Highways Code, relating to fish passages. LEGISLATIVE COUNSEL'S DIGESTAB 1189, as amended, Skinner.
											  Fish passages.Existing law provides that the Department of Transportation has full possession and control of all state highways. Existing law requires the department to prepare an annual report to the Legislature describing the status of the department’s progress in locating, assessing, and remediating barriers to fish passage, as defined. Existing law requires the department to complete assessments of potential barriers to the passage of anadromous fish prior to commencing project design for any project using state or federal transportation funds that affects certain stream crossings. Existing law requires the department to submit the assessment to the Department of Fish and Game and to add it to the CALFISH database. Existing law requires new projects to be constructed without presenting barriers to fish passage. Existing law also requires the department to complete an assessment for any repair or construction project using those funds that affects those stream
		crossings.This bill would define the terms “barrier” and “project” for purposes of these provisions and would require the annual report submitted to the Legislature by the department to include the precise location of past, current, or future remediation projects and a schedule for the remediation of existing barriers to anadromous fish passage. The bill would repeal the provisions requiring the department to perform an assessment for repair or construction projects using state or federal transportation funds that affect those stream crossings. The bill would recast provisions that require the department to complete an assessment of potential barriers to the passage of anadromous fish prior to commencing the project design for any project, as defined, that affects a stream crossing and would require the assessment to include the status of barriers, as specified. The bill would require this assessment to be presented to the Department of Fish and Game and added to
		the California Fish Passage Assessment Database. The bill would require the department to remediate any barriers to fish passage associated with any project using state or federal transportation funds if the project affects a stream crossing on a stream where anadromous fish are, or historically were, found. The bill would require remediation costs for these projects to be programmed into the state transportation improvement program or the state highway operation and protection program. The bill wold require the department to provide notice to the Department of Fish and Game at least 6 month prior to initiating project design of any project and to post the notice in a conspicuous location on its Internet Web site. The bill would require the department to prioritize transportation projects that complement planned or active streambed remediation or restoration efforts. The bill would require the
		department and the Department of Fish and Game, by July 1, 2010, and annually thereafter, to jointly identify high-priority barriers in each district, as specified, and post a list of high-priority barriers in a conspicuous location on its Internet Web site. The bill would require the department to remediate barriers to fish passage using any federal funds received pursuant to the federal American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, to the extent permitted by federal law.Digest Key
				Vote:
				MAJORITY  
				Appropriation:
				NO  
					Fiscal Committee:
					YES  
				Local Program:
                                NO  Bill TextThe people of the State of California do enact as follows:SECTION 1. Section 156 of the Streets and Highways Code is amended to read:156. For purposes of this article, the following definitions shall apply:(a) “Fish passage” means the ability of an anadromous fish to access appropriate habitat at all points in its life cycle, including spawning and rearing.(b) “Department” means the Department of Transportation.(c) “Barrier” means a complete, partial, or temporal obstruction or impediment to fish passage, including physical conditions associated with infrastructure that may impede passage.(d) “Project” means any construction action that is state or federally funded, including, but not
				  limited to, new construction, rehabilitations, repairs, retrofits, alterations, or maintenance projects eligible programmed under the state transportation improvement program and or the state highway operation and protection program, pursuant to Sections 14529 and 14526.5 of the Government Code, respectively.SEC. 2. Section 156.1 of the Streets and Highways Code is amended to read:156.1. The Director of Transportation shall prepare an annual report describing the status of the department’s progress in locating, assessing, and remediating barriers to fish passage on anadromous streams. The report shall include the precise location of past, current, or future remediation projects and a schedule for the remediation of existing fish barriers identified pursuant to Section 156.3. The report shall be given to the Legislature by October 31 of each year through the year 2020.SEC. 3. Section 156.3 of the Streets and Highways Code is repealed.SEC. 4. Section 156.3 is added to the Streets and Highways Code, to read:156.3. (a) The department shall assess potential barriers to fish passage prior to commencing project design for any project programmed after January 1, 2006, if the project affects a stream crossing on a stream where anadromous fish are, or historically were, found, as determined by the department in consultation with the Department of Fish and Game. The department shall use the Department of Fish and Game’s assessment protocol and shall include the status of each barrier, as follows:(1) Not a barrier.(2) Partial.(3) Temporal.(4) Temporal and partial.(5) Temporal and total.(6) Total.(7) Unknown.(b) The department shall submit the results of the assessment required in subdivision (a) to the Department of Fish and Game and add them to the California Fish Passage Assessment Database.(c) (1) The department shall remediate any barriers to fish passage associated with any project if the project affects a stream crossing on a stream where anadramous fish are, or historically were, found, as determined by the department in consultation with the Department of Fish and Game. Remediation shall be designed into the project and the costs of the remediation shall be programmed into the state transportation improvement program
				  or the state highway operation and protection program. The department shall construct new projects so that they do not present a barrier to fish passage.(2) The department shall provide notice to the Department of Fish and Game at least six months prior to initiating design of any project and post this notice in a conspicuous location on its Internet Web site.(3) The department shall prioritize transportation projects that complement planned or active streambed remediation or restoration efforts, based upon streambed restoration needs as prioritized by the Department of Fish and Game.(3)(4) Remediation plans shall be developed in consultation with the Department of Fish and Game. The department shall provide notice to the Department of Fish and Game of each remediated barrier and include a description of each remediated project on the California Fish Passage Assessment Database no less than 30 days after completion of the project.SEC. 5. Section 156.4 of the Streets and Highways Code is repealed.SEC. 6. Section 156.5 is added to the Streets and Highways Code, to read:156.5. The department and the Department of Fish and Game shall, by July 1, 2010, and annually thereafter, jointly identify high-priority barriers in each district, based on the quality or quantity of fish habitat above or below a barrier, and other applicable factors, including whether there are planned or proposed anadromous fisheries restoration projects in the same watershed. The department shall post a list of these high-priority barriers, including any annual updates, in a conspicuous location on its Internet Web site.SEC. 7. Section 156.6 is added to the Streets and Highways Code, to read:156.6. The department shall remediate barriers to fish passage using any federal funds received pursuant to the federal American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, to the extent permitted by federal law.