CALIFORNIA LEGISLATURE— 
								2009–2010 REGULAR SESSION
								Assembly Bill
							No. 1039Introduced  by 
							Assembly Member
						Audra StricklandFebruary 27, 2009 An act to add Section 33355 to the Education Code, relating to interscholastic sports. LEGISLATIVE COUNSEL'S DIGESTAB 1039, as introduced, Audra Strickland.
											  Interscholastic sports.(1) Existing law states the intent of the Legislature that the California Interscholastic Federation (CIF), in consultation with the State Department of Education, implement certain policies, including a policy to establish a neutral final appeals body to hear complaints related to interscholastic athletic policies. On or before January 1, 2010, the CIF is required to report to the Legislature and the Governor on its evaluation and accountability activities undertaken pursuant to specified provisions of law.This bill would authorize the appeal of a final decision of the CIF to suspend or terminate a pupil from participation in a sport for a violation of its codes and regulations to the county board of education, which would be the final arbiter in the matter. By requiring the county board of education to hear an appeal of a CIF final decision, the bill would impose a state-mandated local
		program.(2) The California Constitution requires the state to reimburse local agencies and school districts for certain costs mandated by the state. Statutory provisions establish procedures for making that reimbursement.This bill would provide that, if the Commission on State Mandates determines that the bill contains costs mandated by the state, reimbursement for those costs shall be made pursuant to these statutory provisions.Digest Key
				Vote:
				MAJORITY  
				Appropriation:
				NO  
					Fiscal Committee:
					YES  
				Local Program:
                                YES  Bill TextThe people of the State of California do enact as follows:SECTION 1. Section 33355 is added to the Education Code, to read:33355. When the California Interscholastic Federation makes a final decision to suspend or terminate a pupil from participation in a sport for a violation of its codes and regulations, the pupil may appeal that decision to the county board of education which shall be the final arbiter in the matter. SEC. 2. If the Commission on State Mandates determines that this act contains costs mandated by the state, reimbursement to local agencies and school districts for those costs shall be made pursuant to Part 7 (commencing with Section 17500) of Division 4 of Title 2 of the Government Code.