Amended  
							 IN 
								Assembly 
							 April 22, 2009
								Amended  
							 IN 
								Assembly 
							 April 02, 2009
								CALIFORNIA LEGISLATURE— 
								2009–2010 REGULAR SESSION
								Assembly Bill
							No. 1075Introduced  by 
							Assembly Member
						NavaFebruary 27, 2009 An act to add Sections 187 and 14408.5 to the Financial Code, relating to financial institutions. LEGISLATIVE COUNSEL'S DIGESTAB 1075, as amended, Nava.
											  Financial institutions.Existing law, the Banking Law, provides for the regulation and certification of state organized chartered banks by the Commissioner of Financial Institutions. Existing law, the California Credit Union Law, provides for the regulation and certification of state organized chartered credit unions by the commissioner.This bill would prohibit a state regulated chartered
		bank or credit union that is a recipient of federal or state emergency economic assistance from using money derived from that assistance for specified purposes, except as specified. The bill would make a bank or credit union that violates these provisions subject to a civil penalty of at least $100,000 per violation, would require those penalties to be deposited in either the State Banking Account or the Credit Union Fund, and would prohibit those banks or credit unions from receiving any future emergency economic assistance, as specified. Digest Key
				Vote:
				MAJORITY  
				Appropriation:
				NO  
					Fiscal Committee:
					YES  
				Local Program:
                                NO  Bill TextThe people of the State of California do enact as follows:SECTION 1. Section 187 is added to the Financial Code, to read:187. (a) A bank, or any subsidiary, that is a recipient of federal or state emergency economic assistance shall not use any funds derived from that assistance for any of the following:(1) Lobbying expenditures or political contributions.(2) The hosting or sponsorship of, or payments for, conferences and events.(3) The use of corporate aircraft, travel accommodations, and travel expenditures.(4)For the purpose of mergers or acquisitions.(5)(4) Expenses relating to office or facility renovations or relocations.(6)(5) Expenses relating to entertainment, holiday parties, employee recognition events, or similar ancillary corporate expenses.(7)(6) Executive bonuses.(b) Emergency economic assistance received by a state chartered bank shall not include money received under the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. Secs. 5121 to 5207, incl.).(b)(c) Any bank that violates this section shall be subject to a civil fine of at least one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000) per violation and shall be ineligible to receive any future emergency economic assistance until the bank has completed measures to comply with, and to prevent future violations of, the provisions of this section. Fines collected pursuant to this subdivision shall be deposited in the State Banking
				  Account.SEC. 2. Section 14408.5 is added to the Financial Code, to read:14408.5. (a) A credit union, or any subsidiary, that is a recipient of federal or state emergency economic assistance shall not use any funds derived from that assistance for any of the following:(1) Lobbying expenditures or political contributions.(2) The hosting or sponsorship of, or payments for, conferences and events.(3) The use of corporate aircraft, travel accommodations, and travel expenditures.(4)For the purpose of mergers or acquisitions.(5)(4) Expenses relating to office or facility renovations or relocations.(6)(5) Expenses relating to entertainment, holiday parties, employee recognition events, or similar ancillary corporate expenses.(7)(6) Executive bonuses.(b) Emergency economic assistance received by a state chartered bank shall not include money received under the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act (42 U.S.C. Secs. 5121 to 5207, incl.).(b)(c) Any credit union that violates this section shall be subject to a civil fine of at least one hundred thousand dollars ($100,000) per violation and shall be ineligible to receive any future emergency economic assistance until the credit union has completed measures to comply with, and to prevent future violations of, the provisions of this section. Fines collected pursuant to this subdivision shall be deposited in the Credit Union
				  Fund.