Amended  
							 IN 
								Assembly 
							 April 13, 2009
								CALIFORNIA LEGISLATURE— 
								2009–2010 REGULAR SESSION
								Assembly Bill
							No. 1519Introduced  by 
							Assembly Member
						De La TorreFebruary 27, 2009 An act to amend Section 3010 of the Elections Code, relating to elections. LEGISLATIVE COUNSEL'S DIGESTAB 1519, as amended, De La Torre.
											  Elections: vote by mail ballots.Existing law requires an elections official to provide a qualified applicant for vote by mail voting with the ballot for the precinct in which the voter resides and all supplies necessary for the use and return of the ballot.This bill would require an elections official to provide a qualified applicant for vote by mail voting with a business reply envelope in which to return an election ballot. By imposing additional duties on local elections officials, the bill would impose a state-mandated local program.The bill would establish the State Vote by Mail Postage Fund, and would require that any General Fund moneys appropriated by the Legislature for the purposes of this provision be deposited into that account to provide business reply envelopes in which to return completed vote by mail ballots.This bill would require the Secretary of State to amend the state plan submitted to the federal Election Assistance Commission pursuant to the federal Help America Vote Act of 2002 in order to enable the use of federal funds available under that act for business reply envelopes in which to return completed vote by mail ballots in elections for federal offices. The bill provides that when the federal funds are depleted, funds from the State Vote by Mail Postage Fund shall be used exclusively.The California Constitution requires the state to reimburse local agencies and school districts for certain costs mandated by the state. Statutory provisions establish procedures for making that reimbursement.This bill would provide that, if the Commission on State Mandates determines that the bill contains costs mandated by the state and not covered by the appropriation contained in this bill, reimbursement for those costs shall be made pursuant to these statutory provisions.Digest Key
				Vote:
				MAJORITY  
				Appropriation:
				NO  
					Fiscal Committee:
					YES  
				Local Program:
                                YES  Bill TextThe people of the State of California do enact as follows:SECTION 1. Section 3010 of the Elections Code is amended to read:3010. (a) The elections official shall deliver to each qualified applicant:(1) The ballot for the precinct in which he or she resides. In primary elections this shall also be accompanied by the ballot for the central committee of the party with which the voter is affiliated, if any.(2) All supplies necessary for the use and return of the ballot, including a business reply envelope in which to return the completed vote by mail ballot.(b) The State Vote by Mail Postage Fund is hereby established in the State Treasury. Any moneys appropriated by the Legislature from the General Fund for the purposes of
				  this subdivision shall be deposited into the fund to provide business reply envelopes in which to return completed vote by mail ballots. (c) No officer of this state may make any charge for services rendered to any voter under this chapter.SEC. 2.The Secretary of State shall amend the state plan submitted to the federal Election Assistance Commission pursuant to a provision of the federal Help America Vote Act of 2002 (42 U.S.C. Sec. 15403) in order to enable the use of federal funds available under that act for business reply envelopes in which to return completed vote by mail ballots in elections for federal offices. When the funds available to the state for this purpose pursuant to the Help America Vote Act are depleted, funds specified in subdivision (b) of Section 3010 of the Elections Code shall be used exclusively.SEC. 3.SEC. 2. If the Commission on State Mandates determines that this act contains costs mandated by the state, reimbursement to local agencies and school districts for those costs shall be made pursuant to Part 7 (commencing with Section 17500) of Division 4 of Title 2 of the Government Code.