Assembly Bill
							
										No. 1374	
									CHAPTER 36An act to amend Sections 44260.2 and 44260.3 of, to add Section 44251.2 to, and to repeal Section 44260.8 of, the Education Code, relating to adult education.
						
							[
								Approved  by
							
							Governor  
						 July 06, 2010.
									
								Filed with 
							
							Secretary of State  
						 July 06, 2010.
									]
						LEGISLATIVE COUNSEL'S DIGESTAB 1374, Brownley.
											  Adult education: teaching credentials.(1) Existing law establishes the Commission on Teacher Credentialing to, among other things, establish professional standards, assessments, and examinations for entry and advancement in the education profession. Existing law provides that a credential, certificate, or permit shall remain in force as long as it is valid and continues to be valid under the laws and regulations that were in effect when it was issued.The bill would provide that a credential, permit, certificate, or other document that is lawfully issued by the commission would remain in force in accordance with existing laws and regulations, and would be exempt from new laws and regulations, except as specified.(2) Existing law contains minimum specified requirements for the designated subjects preliminary adult education teaching credential.This bill would recast the adult credential for nonacademic and academic subjects and specify different requirements for nonacademic and academic subjects, as specified.(3) Existing law contains minimum specified requirements for the
		5-year renewal of the preliminary designated subjects adult education teaching credential.This bill would recast the minimum requirements for the 5-year clear designated subjects adult education teaching credential, as specified.(4) Existing law provides specified minimum requirements for the clear designated subjects adult education teaching credential.This
		bill would repeal that provision.Digest Key
				Vote:
				MAJORITY  
				Appropriation:
				NO  
					Fiscal Committee:
					NO  
				Local Program:
                                NO  Bill TextThe people of the State of California do enact as follows:SECTION 1. Section 44251.2 is added to the Education Code, to read:44251.2. A credential, permit, certificate, or other document that is lawfully issued by the commission shall remain in force in accordance with the laws and regulations under which it was issued, and shall be exempt from new laws and regulations unless sections of this code are specifically amended to the contrary.SEC. 2. Section 44260.2 of the Education Code is amended to read:44260.2. The minimum requirements for the three-year preliminary designated subjects adult education teaching credential shall be all of the following:(a) For nonacademic subjects:(1) Three years of adequate, successful, and recent experience in, or a combination of experience and education in, the nonacademic subject to be named on the credential.(2) Possession of a high school diploma or the passage of an equivalency examination as designated by the commission.(b) For academic subjects:(1) A baccalaureate or higher degree from a regionally accredited institution of postsecondary education that includes a minimum of 20 semester units, or the equivalent quarter units, of coursework in the subject to be named on the credential.(2) Passage of the state basic skills requirement pursuant to Sections 44252 and 44252.5.(c) Satisfaction of the requirements for teacher fitness pursuant to Sections 44339, 44340, and 44341.SEC. 3. Section 44260.3 of the Education Code is amended to read:44260.3. The minimum requirements for the five-year clear designated subjects adult education teaching credential shall be all of the following:(a)  A valid three-year preliminary designated subjects adult education teaching credential.(b)  Two years of successful teaching, or the equivalent, as authorized by the preliminary designated subjects adult education teaching credential.(c)  A program of personalized preparation as approved by the commission.(d) The study of health education as specified in subparagraph (A)
				  of paragraph (4) of subdivision (c) of Section 44259.(e) Completion of two semester units or passage of an examination on the principles and provisions of the United States Constitution, as specified in Section 44335.(f) The study of computer-based technology, including the uses of technology in educational settings.SEC. 4. Section 44260.8 of the Education Code is repealed.