Assembly Bill
							
										No. 1071	
									CHAPTER 270An act to amend Sections 2001, 2020, 2460, 2701, 2708, 3010.5, 3014.6, 3685, 3710, 4001, 4003, 4110, 4127.8, 4160, 4400, and 5810 of, to add and repeal Section 3686 of, and to repeal Section 4127.5 of, the Business and Professions Code, relating to professions and vocations, and making an appropriation therefor. 
						
							[
								Approved  by
							
							Governor  
						 October 11, 2009.
									
								Filed with 
							
							Secretary of State  
						 October 11, 2009.
									]
						LEGISLATIVE COUNSEL'S DIGESTAB 1071, Emmerson.
											  Professions and vocations.(1) Existing law provides for the licensure and regulation of various healing arts licensees by various boards within the Department of Consumer Affairs, including, but not limited to, the Medical Board of California, the California Board of Podiatric Medicine, the Board of Registered Nursing, the State Board of Optometry, the Respiratory Care Board of California, and the California State Board of Pharmacy. Existing law requires or authorizes these boards, with the exception of the California Board of Podiatric Medicine, to appoint an executive director or officer. Under existing law, these provisions will become inoperative on July 1, 2010, and will be repealed on January 1, 2011.Under this bill, these provisions would become inoperative and be repealed on January 1, 2013. The bill would also make nonsubstantive changes
		to similar provisions of the Naturopathic Doctors Act. (2) Existing law, the Pharmacy Law, provides for the licensure and regulation of pharmacies, pharmacists, pharmacy technicians, wholesalers of dangerous drugs or devices, and others by the California State Board of Pharmacy. Existing law imposes fees on these persons and pharmacies for, among other things, application, examination, licensure, and licensure renewal. Under existing law, these fees are fixed by the board based on a fee schedule that sets forth the minimum and maximum fees.This bill would increase the minimum and maximum fees in
		that schedule and would make other conforming changes. Because the bill would increase fees that would be deposited into the Pharmacy Board Contingent Fund, which is continuously appropriated, the bill would make an appropriation.(3) Existing law provides for the certification of interior designers, and repeals these provisions on January 1, 2010.This bill would instead repeal these provisions on January 1, 2013.(4) This bill would incorporate additional changes in Section 4110 of the Business and Professions Code proposed by SB 819, to be operative if SB 819 and this bill become effective on or before January 1, 2010, and this bill is chaptered last.(5) This bill
		would incorporate additional changes in Section 4160 of the Business and Professions Code proposed by SB 821, to be operative if SB 821 and this bill become effective on or before January 1, 2010, and this bill is chaptered last. Digest Key
				Vote:
				MAJORITY  
				Appropriation:
				YES  
					Fiscal Committee:
					YES  
				Local Program:
                                NO  Bill TextThe people of the State of California do enact as follows:SECTION 1. Section 2001 of the Business and Professions Code is amended to read:2001. (a) There is in the Department of Consumer Affairs a Medical Board of California that consists of 15 members, seven of whom shall be public members.(b) The Governor shall appoint 13 members to the board, subject to confirmation by the Senate, five of whom shall be public members. The Senate Committee on Rules and the Speaker of the Assembly shall each appoint a public member.(c) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, to reduce the membership of the board to 15, the following shall occur:(1) Two positions on the board that are public members having a term that expires on June 1, 2010, shall terminate instead on January 1, 2008.(2) Two positions on the board that are not public members having a term that
				  expires on June 1, 2008, shall terminate instead on August 1, 2008.(3) Two positions on the board that are not public members having a term that expires on June 1, 2011, shall terminate instead on January 1, 2008.(d) This section shall remain in effect only until January 1, 2013, and as of that date is repealed, unless a later enacted statute, that is enacted before January 1, 2013, deletes or extends that date. The repeal of this section renders the board subject to the review required by Division 1.2
				  (commencing with Section 473).SEC. 2. Section 2020 of the Business and Professions Code is amended to read:2020. (a) The board may employ an executive director exempt from the provisions of the Civil Service Act and may also employ investigators, legal counsel, medical consultants, and other assistance as it may deem necessary to carry into effect this chapter. The board may fix the compensation to be paid for services subject to the provisions of applicable state laws and regulations and may incur other expenses as it may deem necessary. Investigators employed by the board shall be provided special training in investigating medical practice activities.(b) The Attorney General shall act as legal counsel for the board for any judicial and administrative proceedings and his or her services shall be a charge against it.(c) This section shall remain in effect only until January 1, 2013, and as of that date is repealed, unless a later enacted statute, that is enacted before January 1, 2013, deletes or extends that date.SEC. 3. Section 2460 of the Business and Professions Code is amended to read:2460. (a) There is created within the jurisdiction of the Medical Board of California the California Board of Podiatric Medicine.
				  (b) This section shall remain in effect only until January 1, 2013, and as of that date is repealed, unless a later enacted statute, that is enacted before January 1, 2013, deletes or extends that date. The repeal of this section renders the California Board of Podiatric Medicine subject to the review required by Division 1.2 (commencing with Section 473).SEC. 4. Section 2701 of the Business and Professions Code is amended to read:2701. (a) There is in the Department of Consumer Affairs the Board of Registered Nursing consisting of nine members.(b) Within the meaning of this chapter, board, or the board, refers to the Board of Registered Nursing. Any reference in state law to the Board of Nurse Examiners of the State of California or California Board of Nursing Education and Nurse Registration shall be construed to refer to the Board of Registered
				  Nursing.(c) This section shall remain in effect only until January 1, 2013, and as of that date is repealed, unless a later enacted statute, that is enacted before January 1, 2013, deletes or extends that date. The repeal of this section renders the board subject to the review required by Division 1.2 (commencing with Section 473).SEC. 5. Section 2708 of the Business and Professions Code is amended to read:2708. (a) The board shall appoint an executive officer who shall perform the duties delegated by the board and who shall be responsible to it for the accomplishment of those duties.(b) The executive officer shall be a nurse currently licensed under this chapter and shall possess other qualifications as determined by the board.(c) The executive officer shall not be a member of the board.(d) This section shall remain in effect only until January 1, 2013, and as of that date is repealed, unless a later enacted statute, that is enacted before January 1, 2013, deletes or extends that date.SEC. 6. Section 3010.5 of the Business and Professions Code is amended to read:3010.5. (a) There is in the Department of Consumer Affairs a State Board of Optometry in which the enforcement of this chapter is vested. The board consists of 11 members, five of whom shall be public members.Six members of the board shall constitute a quorum.(b) The board shall, with respect to conducting investigations, inquiries, and disciplinary actions and proceedings, have the authority previously vested in the board as created pursuant to Section 3010. The board may enforce any disciplinary actions undertaken by that board.(c) This section shall remain in effect only until January 1, 2013, and as of that date is repealed, unless a later enacted statute, that is enacted before January 1, 2013, deletes or extends that date. The repeal of this section renders the board subject to the review required by Division 1.2 (commencing with Section 473).SEC. 7. Section 3014.6 of the Business and Professions Code is amended to read:3014.6. (a) The board may appoint a person exempt from civil service who shall be designated as an executive officer and who shall exercise the powers and perform the duties delegated by the board and vested in him or her by this chapter.(b) This section
				  shall remain in effect only until January 1, 2013, and as of that date is repealed, unless a later enacted statute, that is enacted before January 1, 2013, deletes or extends that date.SEC. 8. Section 3685 of the Business and Professions Code, as amended by Section 38 of Chapter 18 of the Fourth Extraordinary Session of the Statutes of 2009, is
		  amended to read:3685. (a) The repeal of this chapter renders the committee subject to the review required by Division 1.2 (commencing with Section 473).(b) The committee shall prepare the report required by Section 473.2 no later than September 1, 2010.SEC. 9. Section 3686 is added to the Business and Professions Code, to read:3686. This chapter shall remain in effect only until January 1, 2013, and as of that date is repealed, unless a later enacted statute, that is enacted before January 1, 2013, deletes or extends that date.SEC. 10. Section 3710 of the Business and Professions Code is amended to read:3710. (a) The Respiratory Care Board of California, hereafter referred to as the board, shall enforce and administer this chapter.(b) This section shall remain in effect only until January 1, 2013, and as of that date is repealed, unless a later enacted statute, that is enacted before January 1, 2013, deletes or extends that date. The repeal of this section renders the board subject to the review required by Division 1.2 (commencing with Section 473).SEC. 11. Section 4001 of the Business and Professions Code is amended to read:4001. (a) There is in the Department of Consumer Affairs a California State Board of Pharmacy in which the administration and enforcement of this chapter is vested. The board consists of 13 members.(b) The Governor shall appoint seven competent pharmacists who reside in different parts of the state to serve as members of the board. The Governor shall appoint four public members, and the Senate Committee on Rules and the Speaker of the Assembly shall each appoint a public member who shall not be a licensee of the board, any other board under this division, or any board referred to in Section 1000 or 3600.(c) At least five of the seven pharmacist appointees to the board shall be pharmacists who are actively engaged in the practice of pharmacy. Additionally, the membership of
				  the board shall include at least one pharmacist representative from each of the following practice settings: an acute care hospital, an independent community pharmacy, a chain community pharmacy, and a long-term health care or skilled nursing facility. The pharmacist appointees shall also include a pharmacist who is a member of a labor union that represents pharmacists. For the purposes of this subdivision, a “chain community pharmacy” means a chain of 75 or more stores in California under the same ownership, and an “independent community pharmacy” means a pharmacy owned by a person or entity who owns no more than four pharmacies in California.(d) Members of the board shall be appointed for a term of four years. No person shall serve as a member of the board for more than two consecutive terms. Each member shall hold office until the appointment and qualification of his or her successor or until one year shall have elapsed since the expiration of the term for which the member was
				  appointed, whichever first occurs. Vacancies occurring shall be filled by appointment for the unexpired term.(e) Each member of the board shall receive a per diem and expenses as provided in Section 103.(f) In accordance with Sections 101.1 and 473.1, this section shall remain in effect only until January 1, 2013, and as of that date is repealed, unless a later enacted statute, that is enacted before January 1, 2013, deletes or extends that date. The repeal of this section renders the board subject to the review required by
				  Division 1.2 (commencing with Section 473).SEC. 12. Section 4003 of the Business and Professions Code is amended to read:4003. (a) The board may appoint a person exempt from civil service who shall be designated as an executive officer and who shall exercise the powers and perform the duties delegated by the board and vested in him or her by this chapter. The executive officer may or may not be a member of the board as the board may determine.(b) The executive officer shall receive the compensation as established by the board with the approval of the Director of Finance. The executive officer shall also be entitled to travel and other expenses necessary in the performance of his or her duties.(c) The executive officer shall maintain and update in a timely fashion records containing the names, titles, qualifications, and places of business of all persons subject to this chapter.(d) The executive officer shall give receipts for all money received by him or her and pay it to the Department of Consumer Affairs, taking its receipt therefor. Besides the duties required by this chapter, the executive officer shall perform other duties pertaining to the office as may be required of him or her by the board.(e) In accordance with Sections 101.1 and 473.1, this section shall
				  remain in effect only until January 1, 2013, and as of that date is repealed, unless a later enacted statute, that is enacted before January 1, 2013, deletes or extends that date.SEC. 13. Section 4110 of the Business and Professions Code is amended to read:4110. (a) No person shall conduct a pharmacy in the State of California unless he or she has obtained a license from the board. A license shall be required for each pharmacy owned or operated by a specific person. A separate license shall be required for each of the premises of any person operating a pharmacy in more than one location. The license shall be renewed annually. The board may, by regulation, determine the circumstances under which a license may be transferred.(b) The board may, at its discretion, issue a temporary permit, when the ownership of a pharmacy is transferred from one person to another, upon the conditions and for any periods of time as the board determines to be in the public interest. A temporary permit fee
				  shall be required in an amount established by the board as specified in subdivision (a) of Section 4400. When needed to protect public safety, a temporary permit may be issued for a period not to exceed 180 days, and may be issued subject to terms and conditions the board deems necessary. If the board determines a temporary permit was issued by mistake or denies the application for a permanent license or registration, the temporary license or registration shall terminate upon either personal service of the notice of termination upon the permitholder or service by certified mail, return receipt requested, at the permitholder’s address of record with the board, whichever comes first. Neither for purposes of retaining a temporary permit nor for purposes of any disciplinary or license denial proceeding before the board shall the temporary permitholder be deemed to have a vested property right or interest in the permit.SEC. 13.5. Section 4110 of the Business and Professions Code is amended to read:4110. (a) No person shall conduct a pharmacy in the State of California unless he or she has obtained a license from the board. A license shall be required for each pharmacy owned or operated by a specific person. A separate license shall be required for each of the premises of any person operating a pharmacy in more than one location. The license shall be renewed annually. The board may, by regulation, determine the circumstances under which a license may be transferred.(b) The board may, at its discretion, issue a temporary permit, when the ownership of a pharmacy is transferred from one person to another, upon the conditions and for any periods of time as the board determines to be in the public interest. A temporary permit fee shall be required
				  in an amount established by the board as specified in subdivision (a) of Section 4400. When needed to protect public safety, a temporary permit may be issued for a period not to exceed 180 days, and may be issued subject to terms and conditions the board deems necessary. If the board determines a temporary permit was issued by mistake or denies the application for a permanent license or registration, the temporary license or registration shall terminate upon either personal service of the notice of termination upon the permitholder or service by certified mail, return receipt requested, at the permitholder’s address of record with the board, whichever comes first. Neither for purposes of retaining a
				  temporary permit nor for purposes of any disciplinary or license denial proceeding before the board shall the temporary permitholder be deemed to have a vested property right or interest in the permit.(c) The board may allow the temporary use of a mobile pharmacy when a pharmacy is destroyed or damaged, the mobile pharmacy is necessary to protect the health and safety of the public, and the following conditions are met:(1) The mobile pharmacy shall provide services only on or immediately contiguous to the site of the damaged or destroyed pharmacy.(2) The mobile pharmacy is under the control and management of the pharmacist-in-charge of the pharmacy that was destroyed or damaged.(3) A licensed pharmacist is on the premises while drugs are being dispensed.(4) Reasonable security
				  measures are taken to safeguard the drug supply maintained in the mobile pharmacy.(5) The pharmacy operating the mobile pharmacy provides the board with records of the destruction of, or damage to, the pharmacy and an expected restoration date.(6) Within three calendar days of restoration of the pharmacy services, the board is provided with notice of the restoration of the permanent pharmacy.(7) The mobile pharmacy is not operated for more than 48 hours following the restoration of the permanent pharmacy.SEC. 14. Section 4127.5 of the Business and Professions Code is repealed.SEC. 15. Section 4127.8 of the Business and Professions Code is amended to read:4127.8. The board may, at its discretion, issue a temporary license to compound injectable sterile drug products, when the ownership of a pharmacy that is licensed to compound injectable sterile drug products is transferred from one person to another, upon the conditions and for any periods of time as the board determines to be in the public interest. A temporary license fee shall be required in an amount established by the board as specified in subdivision (u) of Section 4400. When needed to protect public safety, a temporary license may be issued for a period not to exceed 180 days, and may be issued subject to terms and conditions the board deems necessary. If the board determines a temporary license was issued by mistake or denies the application for a permanent license, the temporary license shall terminate upon
				  either personal service of the notice of termination upon the licenseholder or service by certified mail, return receipt requested at the licenseholder’s address of record with the board, whichever comes first. Neither for purposes of retaining a temporary license nor for purposes of any disciplinary or license denial proceeding before the board shall the temporary licenseholder be deemed to have a vested property right or interest in the license.SEC. 16. Section 4160 of the Business and Professions Code is amended to read:4160. (a) A person may not act as a wholesaler of any dangerous drug or dangerous device unless he or she has obtained a license from the board.(b) Upon approval by the board and the payment of the required fee, the board shall issue a license to the applicant.(c) A separate license shall be required for each place of business owned or operated by a wholesaler. Each license shall be renewed annually and shall not be transferable.(d) The board shall not issue or renew a wholesaler license until the wholesaler identifies a designated representative-in-charge and notifies the board in writing of the
				  identity and license number of that designated representative. The designated representative-in-charge shall be responsible for the wholesaler’s compliance with state and federal laws governing wholesalers. A wholesaler shall identify and notify the board of a new designated representative-in-charge within 30 days of the date that the prior designated representative-in-charge ceases to be the designated representative-in-charge. A pharmacist may be identified as the designated representative-in-charge.(e) A drug manufacturer premises licensed by the Food and Drug Administration or licensed pursuant to Section 111615 of the Health and Safety Code that only distributes dangerous drugs and dangerous devices of its own manufacture is exempt from this section and Section 4161.(f) The board may issue a temporary license, upon conditions and for periods of time as the board determines
				  to be in the public interest. A temporary license fee shall be required in an amount established by the board as specified in subdivision (f) of Section 4400. When needed to protect public safety, a temporary license may be issued for a period not to exceed 180 days, subject to terms and conditions that the board deems necessary. If the board determines that a temporary license was issued by mistake or denies the application for a permanent license, the temporary license shall terminate upon either personal service of the notice of termination upon the licenseholder or service by certified mail, return receipt requested, at the licenseholder’s address of record with the board, whichever occurs first. Neither for purposes of retaining a temporary license, nor for purposes of any disciplinary or license denial proceeding before the board, shall the temporary licenseholder be deemed to have a vested property right or interest in the license.(g) This section shall become operative on January 1, 2006.SEC. 16.5. Section 4160 of the Business and Professions Code is amended to read:4160. (a) A person may not act as a wholesaler of any dangerous drug or dangerous device unless he or she has obtained a license from the board.(b) Upon approval by the board and the payment of the required fee, the board shall issue a license to the applicant.(c) A separate license shall be required for each place of business owned or operated by a wholesaler. Each license shall be renewed annually and shall not be transferable.(d) Every
				  wholesaler shall be supervised or managed by a designated representative-in-charge. The designated representative-in-charge shall be responsible for the wholesaler’s compliance with state and federal laws governing wholesalers. As part of its initial application for a license, and for each renewal, each wholesaler shall, on a form designed by the board, provide identifying information and the California license number for a designated representative or pharmacist proposed to serve as the designated representative-in-charge.
				  The proposed designated representative-in-charge shall be subject to approval by the board. The board shall not issue or renew a wholesaler license without identification of an approved designated representative-in-charge for the wholesaler.(e) Every wholesaler shall notify the board in writing, on a form designed by the board, within 30 days of the date when a designated representative-in-charge ceases to act as the designated representative-in-charge, and shall on the same form propose another designated representative or pharmacist to take over as the designated representative-in-charge. The proposed replacement designated representative-in-charge shall be subject to approval by the board. If disapproved, the wholesaler shall propose another replacement within 15 days of the date of disapproval, and shall continue to name proposed replacements until a
				  designated representative-in-charge is approved by the board.(f) A drug manufacturer premises licensed by the Food and Drug Administration or licensed pursuant to Section 111615 of the Health and Safety Code that only distributes dangerous drugs and dangerous devices of its own manufacture is exempt from this section and Section 4161.(g) The board may issue a temporary license,
				  upon conditions and for periods of time as the board determines to be in the public interest. A temporary license fee shall be required in an amount established by the board as specified in subdivision (f) of Section 4400. When needed to protect public safety, a temporary license may be issued for a period not to exceed 180 days, subject to terms and conditions that the board deems necessary. If the board determines that a temporary license was issued by mistake or denies the application
				  for a permanent license, the temporary license shall terminate upon either personal service of the notice of termination upon the licenseholder or service by certified mail, return receipt requested, at the licenseholder’s address of record with the board, whichever occurs first. Neither for purposes of retaining a temporary license, nor for purposes of any disciplinary or license denial proceeding before the board, shall the temporary licenseholder be deemed to have a vested property right or interest in the license.SEC. 17. Section 4400 of the Business and Professions Code is amended to read:4400. The amount of fees and penalties prescribed by this chapter, except as otherwise provided, is that fixed by the board according to the following schedule:(a) The fee for a nongovernmental pharmacy license shall be four hundred dollars ($400) and may be increased to five hundred twenty dollars ($520). The fee for the issuance of a temporary nongovernmental pharmacy permit shall be two hundred fifty dollars ($250) and may be increased to three hundred twenty-five dollars ($325).(b) The fee for a nongovernmental pharmacy license annual renewal shall be two hundred fifty dollars ($250) and may be increased to three hundred twenty-five dollars ($325).(c) The fee for the pharmacist application and examination shall be two hundred dollars ($200) and may be increased to two hundred sixty dollars ($260).(d) The fee for regrading an examination shall be ninety dollars ($90) and may be increased to one hundred fifteen dollars ($115). If an error in grading is found and the applicant passes the examination, the regrading fee shall be refunded.(e) The fee for a pharmacist license and biennial renewal shall be one hundred fifty dollars ($150) and may be increased to one hundred ninety-five dollars ($195).(f) The fee for a nongovernmental wholesaler license and annual renewal shall be six hundred dollars ($600), and may be increased to seven hundred eighty dollars ($780). The application fee for any
				  additional location after licensure of the first 20 locations shall be two hundred twenty-five dollars ($225) and may be increased to three hundred dollars ($300). A temporary license fee shall be five hundred fifty dollars ($550) and may be increased to seven hundred fifteen dollars ($715).(g) The fee for a hypodermic license and renewal shall be one hundred twenty-five dollars ($125) and may be increased to one hundred sixty-five dollars ($165).(h) (1) The fee for application, investigation, and issuance of license as a designated representative pursuant to Section 4053 shall be two hundred fifty-five dollars ($255) and may be increased to three hundred thirty dollars ($330).(2) The fee for the annual renewal of a license as a designated representative shall be one hundred fifty dollars
				  ($150) and may be increased to one hundred ninety-five dollars ($195).(i) (1) The fee for the application, investigation, and issuance of a license as a designated representative for a veterinary food-animal drug retailer pursuant to Section 4053 shall be two hundred fifty-five dollars ($255) and may be increased to three hundred thirty dollars ($330).(2) The fee for the annual renewal of a license as a designated representative for a veterinary food-animal drug retailer shall be one hundred fifty dollars ($150) and may be increased to one hundred ninety-five dollars ($195).(j) (1) The application fee for a nonresident wholesaler’s license issued pursuant to Section 4161 shall be six hundred dollars ($600) and may be increased to seven hundred eighty dollars ($780).(2) For nonresident wholesalers who have 21 or more facilities operating nationwide the application fees for the first 20 locations shall be six hundred dollars ($600) and may be increased to seven hundred eighty dollars ($780). The application fee for any additional location after licensure of the first 20 locations shall be two hundred twenty-five dollars ($225) and may be increased to three hundred dollars ($300). A temporary license fee shall be five hundred fifty dollars ($550) and may be increased to seven hundred fifteen dollars ($715).(3) The annual renewal fee for a nonresident wholesaler’s license issued pursuant to Section 4161 shall be six hundred dollars ($600) and may be increased to seven hundred eighty dollars ($780).(k) The fee for evaluation of continuing education courses for accreditation shall be
				  set by the board at an amount not to exceed forty dollars ($40) per course hour.(l) The fee for an intern pharmacist license shall be ninety dollars ($90) and may be increased to one hundred fifteen dollars ($115). The fee for transfer of intern hours or verification of licensure to another state shall be twenty-five dollars ($25) and may be increased to thirty dollars ($30).(m) The board may waive or refund the additional fee for the issuance of a license where the license is issued less than 45 days before the next regular renewal date.(n) The fee for the reissuance of any license, or renewal thereof, that has been lost or destroyed or reissued due to a name change shall be thirty-five dollars ($35) and may be increased to forty-five dollars ($45).(o) The fee for the reissuance of any license, or renewal thereof, that must be reissued because of a change in the information, shall be one hundred dollars ($100) and may be increased to one hundred thirty dollars ($130).(p) It is the intent of the Legislature that, in setting fees pursuant to this section, the board shall seek to maintain a reserve in the Pharmacy Board Contingent Fund equal to approximately one year’s operating expenditures.(q) The fee for any applicant for a nongovernmental clinic license shall be four hundred dollars ($400) and may be increased to five hundred twenty dollars ($520) for each license. The annual fee for renewal of the license shall be two hundred fifty dollars ($250) and may be increased to three hundred twenty-five dollars ($325) for each license.(r) The fee for
				  the issuance of a pharmacy technician license shall be eighty dollars ($80) and may be increased to one hundred five dollars ($105). The fee for renewal of a pharmacy technician license shall be one hundred dollars ($100) and may be increased to one hundred thirty dollars ($130).(s) The fee for a veterinary food-animal drug retailer license shall be four hundred five dollars ($405) and may be increased to four hundred twenty-five dollars ($425). The annual renewal fee for a veterinary food-animal drug retailer license shall be two hundred fifty dollars ($250) and may be increased to three hundred twenty-five dollars ($325).(t) The fee for issuance of a retired license pursuant to Section 4200.5 shall be thirty-five dollars ($35) and may be increased to forty-five dollars ($45).(u) The fee for issuance or renewal of a nongovernmental license to compound
				  sterile drug products shall be six hundred dollars ($600) and may be increased to seven hundred eighty dollars ($780). The fee for a temporary license shall be five hundred fifty dollars ($550) and may be increased to seven hundred fifteen dollars ($715). SEC. 18. Section 5810 of the Business and Professions Code is amended to read:5810. (a) This chapter shall be subject to the review required by Division 1.2 (commencing with Section 473).(b) This chapter shall remain in effect only until January 1, 2013, and as of that date is repealed, unless a later enacted statute, that is enacted before January 1, 2013, deletes or extends that date.SEC. 19. Section 13.5 of this bill incorporates amendments to Section 4110 of the Business and Professions Code proposed by this bill and SB 819. It shall only become operative if (1) both bills are enacted and become effective on or before January 1, 2010, (2) each bill amends Section 4110 of the Business and Profession Code, and (3) this bill is enacted after SB 819, in which case Section 4110 of the Business and Professions Code, as amended by SB 819, shall remain operative only until the operative date of this bill, at which time Section 13.5 of this bill shall become operative, and Section 13 of this bill shall not become operative.SEC. 20. Section 16.5 of this bill incorporates amendments to Section 4160 of the Business and Professions Code proposed by both this bill and SB 821. It shall only become operative if (1) both bills are enacted and become effective on or before January 1, 2010, (2) each bill amends Section 4160 of the Business and Professions Code, and (3) this bill is enacted after SB 821, in which case Section 16 of this bill shall not become operative.