Amended  
							 IN 
								Assembly 
							 January 04, 2010
								Amended  
							 IN 
								Assembly 
							 April 20, 2009
								CALIFORNIA LEGISLATURE— 
								2009–2010 REGULAR SESSION
								Assembly Bill
							No. 1192Introduced  by 
							Assembly Member
						Audra StricklandFebruary 27, 2009 An act to add Section 37113 53081 to the Government Code, relating to cities. local governments.LEGISLATIVE COUNSEL'S DIGESTAB 1192, as amended, Audra Strickland.
											  Cities: Local government: powers.Existing law authorizes a board of trustees, city council, or other governing body of a city, defined as a legislative body, to pass ordinances not in conflict with state or federal law and the state or federal constitution.This bill would prohibit a legislative body, as defined, from selling or leasing any existing public improvement to a private or public entity, including any entity controlled by the city, for the purposes of renting or leasing back, or repurchasing through installment payments that existing public improvement building to an entity that is controlled by the legislative body to raise money to fund the general expenses of the
		jurisdiction of the legislative body. This bill would also declare that this prohibition is a matter of statewide concern, thus making it applicable to charter and general cities.Digest Key
				Vote:
				MAJORITY  
				Appropriation:
				NO  
					Fiscal Committee:
					NO  
				Local Program:
                                NO  Bill TextThe people of the State of California do enact as follows:SECTION 1. Section 53081 is added to the Government Code, to read:53081. A legislative body shall not sell or lease any building to an entity that is controlled by the legislative body to raise money to fund the general expenses of the jurisdiction of the legislative body.SECTION 1.Section 37113 is added to the Government Code, to read:37113.The legislative body of a city, including a charter city or city and county, shall not sell or lease any existing public improvement to a private or public entity, including an entity controlled by the city, for the purposes of renting or leasing back, or repurchasing through installment payments that existing public improvement.SEC. 2. The Legislature finds and declares that the usual purpose of those arrangements is to evade the constitutional requirement of voter approval for new debt. The Legislature further finds and declares that increasing the debt to be serviced by California taxpayers without their approval impairs the financial health of cities, and the state as a whole, and therefore, this act pertains to an issue of statewide concern and is not purely a municipal affair, as that term is used in Section 5 of Article XI of the California Constitution.