Amended  
							 IN 
								Assembly 
							 April 13, 2009
								CALIFORNIA LEGISLATURE— 
								2009–2010 REGULAR SESSION
								Assembly Bill
							No. 1526Introduced  by 
							Assembly Member
						FletcherFebruary 27, 2009 An act to amend Section 10 of the Food and Agricultural Code, relating to agriculture. An act to add Part 4 (commencing with Section 19600) to Division 9 of the Food and Agriculture Code, relating to wildlife.LEGISLATIVE COUNSEL'S DIGESTAB 1526, as amended, Fletcher.
											  Agriculture. The Wildlife Center.Existing law provides that there is in state government the Department of Food and Agriculture and prescribes various duties, powers, and responsibilities of the department.This bill would require the department, upon inspection and approval of the facility, to grant the Wildlife Center a permit to operate for at least 5 years. The bill would provide that the department is the sole state licensing agency over the Wildlife Center. The bill would authorize the department to charge the Wildlife Center a fee for the initial permit and for any subsequent renewals and inspections to cover the department’s costs for those activities. The bill would require the Department of Fish and Game, upon the request of the Wildlife Center, to release the remains of Cotie, a dog/coyote hybrid, to the Wildlife Center.Under existing law, a violation of the provisions of this bill would be a misdemeanor. Because this bill would create new crimes, the bill would impose a state-mandated local program.This bill would declare that, due to the special circumstances applicable to the Wildlife Center, a general statute cannot be made applicable within the meaning of Section 16 of Article IV of the California Constitution, and the enactment of a special statute is therefore necessary.The California Constitution requires the state to reimburse local agencies and school districts for certain costs mandated by the state. Statutory provisions establish procedures for making that reimbursement.This bill would provide that no reimbursement is required by this act for a specified reason.Existing law provides that whenever any notice, report, statement, or record is required by provisions of law relating to agriculture, it shall be in writing unless it is expressly provided that it may be oral.This bill would provide that written notices, reports, statements, or records may be transmitted electronically or by facsimile.Digest Key
				Vote:
				MAJORITY  
				Appropriation:
				NO  
					Fiscal Committee:
					NOYES  
				Local Program:
                                NOYES  Bill TextThe people of the State of California do enact as follows:SECTION 1. This act shall be known, and may be cited, as Cotie’s Law.SEC. 2. Part 4 (commencing with Section 19600) is added to Division 9 of the Food and Agricultural Code, to read:PART 4. WILDLIFE19600. (a) The Department of Food and Agriculture shall, upon inspection and approval of the facility, grant the Wildlife Center, a nonprofit animal shelter and rescue organization under Section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code and located in San Diego County, a permit to operate for a period of at least five years. The department shall be the sole state licensing agency over the Wildlife Center.(b) The department may charge the Wildlife Center a fee for the initial permit and for any subsequent renewals and inspections to cover the department’s costs for those activities.(c) The Department of Fish and Game shall, upon the request of the Wildlife Center, release the remains of Cotie, a seven-year-old dog/coyote hybrid that was confiscated at the center by a warden of the Department of
					 Fish and Game, to the Wildlife Center.SEC. 3. The Legislature finds and declares that a special law is necessary and that a general law cannot be made applicable within the meaning of Section 16 of Article IV of the California Constitution because of the unique circumstances surrounding the ownership and operation of the Wildlife Center.SEC. 4. No reimbursement is required by this act pursuant to Section 6 of Article XIII B of the California Constitution because the only costs that may be incurred by a local agency or school district will be incurred because this act creates a new crime or infraction, eliminates a crime or infraction, or changes the penalty for a crime or infraction, within the meaning of Section 17556 of the Government Code, or changes the definition of a crime within the meaning of Section 6 of Article XIII B of the California Constitution.SECTION 1.Section 10 of the Food and Agricultural Code is amended to read:10.Whenever any notice, report, statement, or record is required by this code, it shall be in writing, which may be transmitted electronically or by facsimile, unless it is expressly provided that it may be oral.