Amended  
							 IN 
								Senate
							 June 15, 2010
								Amended  
							 IN 
								Assembly 
							 January 04, 2010
								CALIFORNIA LEGISLATURE— 
								2009–2010 REGULAR SESSION
								Assembly Bill
							No. 127Introduced  by 
							Assembly Member
						JeffriesJanuary 16, 2009 An act to amend Section 3111 of, to add Article 2.5 (commencing with Section 3116) to Chapter 8.5 of Division 4 of Title 1 of, and to repeal and add Article 2 (commencing with Section 3113) of Chapter 8.5 of Division 4 of Title 1 of, the Government Code, relating to volunteer service. LEGISLATIVE COUNSEL'S DIGESTAB 127, as amended, Jeffries.
											  Volunteer service: Office of California Volunteers and California Volunteers Commission.Existing law establishes the Office for Citizen Initiative and Voluntary Action within the office of the Governor.This bill would repeal the statutes establishing the Office for Citizen Initiative and Voluntary Action within the office of the Governor, and instead enact provisions establishing the Office of California Volunteers within the office of the Governor, specifying the duties and responsibilities of the office, and requiring that the office be led by the Secretary of Service and Volunteering, who would be appointed by, and serve at the pleasure of, the Governor. The bill also would establish the California Volunteers Commission, which would serve as California’s “State Commission” for purposes of the federal
		National and Community Service Trust Act of 1993 and its implementing rules and regulations. The bill would provide for the composition of the commission, that the members would serve without compensation, and that the First Lady of California or First Gentleman of California would serve as the Honorary Chairperson of the commission. The bill also would provide that no more than 50% of the commission, plus one member, shall be from the same political party.Digest Key
				Vote:
				MAJORITY  
				Appropriation:
				NO  
					Fiscal Committee:
					YES  
				Local Program:
                                NO  Bill TextThe people of the State of California do enact as follows:SECTION 1. Section 3111 of the Government Code is amended to read:3111. As used in this chapter, the following terms have the following meanings:(a) “Volunteer” means any person who, of his or her own free will, provides goods or services, without any financial gain.(b) “Administrative volunteer” means any person serving voluntarily on boards, commissions, or other similar bodies of the state.(c) “Direct service volunteer” means any person involved in specific volunteer service that includes one-to-one relationships with, or assistance to, recipients of government services.SEC. 2. Article 2 (commencing with Section 3113) of Chapter 8.5 of Division 4 of Title 1 of the Government Code is repealed.SEC. 3. Article 2 (commencing with Section 3113) is added to Chapter 8.5 of Division 4 of Title 1 of the Government Code, to read:
								Article
							 2. Office of California Volunteers3113. (a) There is in the office of the Governor an Office of California Volunteers to recruit and mobilize California residents for volunteer service.(b) “Office” as used in this article means the Office of California Volunteers.3114. Consistent with federal and state law, the duties and responsibilities of the office shall include, but not be limited to, the following:(a) Recruiting and mobilizing California residents for volunteer service by identifying service opportunities throughout the state and by recognizing residents for the contributions they make as volunteers and participants in public service programs.(b) Serving as the state’s lead agency for community service and volunteerism, informing the public of the value of and need for greater community service and volunteerism in California, calling upon all Californians to become involved, and challenging public and private
					 institutions to create and support community service and volunteer opportunities.(c) Partnering with other public agencies at the state, county, and local levels, and the private and nonprofit sectors to leverage greater resources and create more opportunities for, and greater participation in, service and volunteering.3115. The office shall be led by a Secretary of Service and Volunteering who shall be appointed by the Governor and shall serve at the pleasure of the Governor. SEC. 4. Article 2.5 (commencing with Section 3116) is added to Chapter 8.5 of Division 4 of Title 1 of the Government Code, to read:
								Article
							 2.5. California Volunteers Commission3116. (a) There is established in state government the California Volunteers Commission that shall serve as California’s “State Commission” for purposes of the National and Community Service Trust Act of 1993 (42 U.S.C. Sec. 12501 et seq.) and its implementing rules and regulations.(b) “Commission” as used in this article means the California Volunteers Commission.3117. (a) In keeping with the requirements of the National and Community Service Trust Act of 1993, the commission shall include the following individuals as voting members:(1) An individual with expertise in the educational, training, and development needs of youth, particularly disadvantaged youth.(2) An individual with expertise in promoting the involvement of older adults in service and volunteerism.(3) A representative of community-based agencies or organizations
					 within the state.(4) The Superintendent of Public Instruction.(5) A representative of local government.(6) A representative of local labor organizations.(7) A representative of business.(8) An individual between 16 and 25 years of age who is a participant or supervisor of a service program for school-aged youth, or of a campus-based or national service program.(9) A representative of a qualifying national service program.(10) A representative of the volunteer sector.(b) Voting members of
					 the commission shall serve at the pleasure of the Governor for terms of three years and are eligible for reappointment.(c) The Governor may appoint to the commission other voting or ex officio, nonvoting members, subject to the limitation that the total membership of the commission shall not exceed 25 members.(d)The spouse of the Governor, also known as the First Lady of California or the First Gentleman of California, shall serve as Honorary Chairperson of the commission. In this capacity, the First Lady or First Gentleman, with the assistance of her or his office, shall lead a broad range of service and citizen initiatives that develop and strengthen the human, cultural, and natural resources of the state.(e)(d) The First Lady or First Gentleman and commission members shall serve without compensation but may be reimbursed for travel expenses and receive a per diem as appropriate.(f)(e) No more than 50 percent of the commission, plus one member, shall be from the same political party, as required by federal law.